arrow: ɲam
arrow: kʰʌφaram
ashes: yokonopam
ashes: yokonopam
ashes: yɨɣonpam
back: moënggat
back: moəŋgʌt
back: monggït
back: moŋgɨtʰ
bad: bebɨt
bark: mɨy tʰiɣa-t
belly: yátírh
belly: yatit
belly: yatitʰ
belly: yatʰɪr
big: badokam
big: bʌdokʰam
big: brot
big: brotʰ
bird: nonggwar
bird: noŋgwar
bird: nuŋgar
bird: nuŋgwar
bird: núnggwarh
bite: kïwit-worh
bite: kɨwitwor
black: kʰərtʰatʰ
black: kɛrtʰatʰ
black: kërtát
blood: kïkúpam
blood: kɨkʰupʰam
blood: kukupam
blood: kʰukʰupam
blow: teŋgɨt
bone: mʌi
bone: tapim
bone: tïpírh
bone: tʰʌpʰim
bone: tɨpit
boy: yanër
boy: yʌnər
breast: minggam
breast: miŋgam
breast: miŋgatʰ
brother: nayɛmɨr
brother: nayj(-amër)
brother: nayɟʌmər
brother: nažɛmʌr
burn: funé-
burn: φunewɛtʰ
cassowary: bëndïghorht
cassowary: bundugwar
chin: yengganggovat
chin: yɛŋgʌŋgovat
claw: pitsakam
claw: pʰɪtsʌkam
cloud: gïribïpam
cloud: gɨribɨpam
cloud: mowank
cloud: mowʌnkʰ
cold: gëiïnggïtewt
cold: gonagateyot
cold: poŋgʌgʌtʰeyotʰ
cold: ram
come: bineyawa
come: bineyawa
come: newɛr
come: nie-
count: tɨɣɛmnakɨßɛt
crocodile: manumbor
crocodile: mʌnumbor
cut: pok-
cut: was
day: mar-
die: nogh-
die: noɣwɛr
dig: toukɨßɛt
dog: yaurhy
dog: yaury
dog: yau-š
dog: yawu
dog: yawu
drink: φut-
dry: -kɨna
dust: φušpam
earth: babinsapit
earth: bɨbɪɲčɛßɨtʰ
earth: bʌbɪnsapitʰ
earth: bïb-iny´chëvït
ear: yimbalindanggam
ear: yɪmbiɣindaŋgɨtʰ
ear: yɪmbʌlindangʌm
eat: ka-
eat: kʰawer
eat: weyanum
eat: weyanum
egg: foghát
egg: fokam
egg: φoɣat
egg: φokam
elbow: tilingganagar
elbow: tilingʌnʌgar
emu: bɛndɨɣortʰ
emu: bundugwʌr
eye: ɲiŋgar
eye: ninggaw
eye: niŋgaw
eye: nyínggarh
eye: tuim
fall: šuɣkßɛt
father: ißemɨr
father: yißemar
father: yiv(-emar)
fat (n.): shivapam
fat (n.): sißopam
fat (n.): sivopam
fat (n.): šɪßʌpam
finger: mama pinyap
finger: mïma pinyávït
finger: mɨma pʰɪɲaßɨtʰ
finger: mʌmapinyap
fire: kʰaɣɨtʰ
fire: kaxt
fire: kʰaxtʰ
fish: yelam
fish: yɛlam
fish: yira-r
five: tiyokutut
five: tiyokutʰut
foot: wura-t
forehead: ɲɪmbikɨtʰ
forehead: nimbik
forehead: nɪmbikʰ
forehead: nyimbíkït
forest: bus
four: hutsifi-hutsif
four: hutsɪφɪhutsɪφ
four: xosßiošɪφ
full: frukíaghit
full: φrukiʌɣɨtʰ
girl: yant merit
girl: yantʰ merɪtʰ
give: kaxuk
give: rapakuda
give: rapakuda
good: xißa
good: xíva
green: námbëmïn´dërhpam
green: nambɛmɨndɛrpʰam
hair: tamarts
hair: tïmársh
hair: tʰɨmarš ~ tʰɨmarč
hair: tʌmarts
hand: tiwapit
hand: tʰiwapitʰ
hand: tɪrtʰ
head: mabogat
head: mʌbogatʰ
head: mɛßɨɣatʰ
head: mévïghat
heart: marbil
heart: marbil
heart: márbirh
heart: marbɪr
hear: wanúk-
hear: wanukʷɛr
heavy: korghíwët
heavy: korɣiwɛtʰ
heavy: kurukiyut
heavy: kʰurukʰiyutʰ
he/she: rɛr
he/she: rërh
hit: tat-
hit: tʰatwɛr
hole: mox-
house: kʰuɲč ~ kʰuɲš
house: kunyam
house: kúnych
house: kʰunyʌm
I: na
I: na
I: na
knee: banggor
knee: baŋgor
lake: barit
laugh: ninggít-
laugh: niŋgitʷɛr
leaf: reßatuam
leaf: revatuam
leaf: tʰatʰ
leaf: toát
leg: walat
leg: wʌlat
leg: wʊratʰ
leg: wúrát
lie: hoit-
lie: hoitwor
liver: wavat
liver: wavʌt
long: yukar
long: yukʰar
long: yukarhy
long: yukary
louse: namo
louse: nëmit
louse: nɛmɨtʰ
louse: nʌmo
many: bëkïm
many: bɛkɨm
man: yimar
man: yimar
man: yimar
man: yímárh
meat: nampam
meat: nemoam
meat: nɛmpʰam
meat: nʌmpam
moon: yamat
moon: yamït
moon: yamʌtʰ
moon: yamɨtʰ
morning: dɨßa
mosquito: ʲoʷ
mosquito: yot
mosquito: yotʰ
mother: mam(-emit)
mother: mïm-
mother: mɨmemɨtʰ
mother: mʌmɛmɪt
mountain: kamin
mountain: kïminy-
mountain: kɨmɪɲčɛßɨtʰ
mountain: kʰʌmin
mouth: tanggat
mouth: tïnggït
mouth: tʰɨŋgɨtʰ
mouth: tʌŋgʌtʰ
name: yufat
name: yußatʌ
name: yuvat
name: yuφat
nape: moktapil
nape: mokʰtʰʌpʰil
neck: méghïtïpit
neck: mɛɣɨtɨpitʰ
new: nïvrit
new: nɨßritʰ
night: yißuŋkɨtʰ
night: yivunggat
night: yivúngkït
night: yɪßungʌtʰ
nose: kushïmït
nose: kusimat
not: finyi
not: nagay
not: nɨɣaʲ~ nɨɣe
not: nʌgay
not: nïghái
not: nïghé
not: φiɲɟi
old: yatïkït
old: yatɨkɨtʰ
one: repar
one: rɛpʰar
one: rïpat
one: rɨpʰatʰ
person: yima
pull: tex-
push: takyo-
rain: buriogo
rain: buriogo
rain: bury
rain: buryh
rain: buš
rat: mënggïrh
rat: mɛŋgɨr
rat: wilar
rat: wilar
red: kokopi
red: kʰokʰopʰi
river: tekɨt
road: yagotar
road: yʌgotʰar
road: yïghótyoghat
road: yɨɣocoɣatʰ
root: matitabm
root: mʌtʰitʰʌbm
root: nembebm
root: nembépm
rub: gebrerna-
sand: nonggut
sand: noŋgutʰ
sand: nuŋgʌr
say: kɨbiwɛr
say: kïbi-
seed: miyukram
seed: miyukʰram
see: wokatinum
see: wokatinum
see: xïtít-
see: xɨtʰitʷɛr
short: kokopen
short: kokopén
short: kukopeyn
short: kʰukʰopʰeyn
shoulder: badinggat
shoulder: bʌdingat
shoulder: tïnimbághat
shoulder: tɨnimbʌɣatʰ
sister: mandar(-emt)
sister: mïndar-
sister: mɨndaremɨt
sister: mʌndarɛmtʰ
sit: kʰodʌgor
sit: kodog-
sit: korgh-
sit: kʰorɣwor
skin: takat
skin: tʰɨɣatʰ
skin: tighát
skin: tʰʌkʰatʰ
sleep: xoit
small: habghiénïrh
small: habɣiɛnɨr
small: takëpuyeram
small: takʰəpʰuyɛrʌm
smoke: kʰaxipor
smoke: kaxi-por
smoke: xipeßɨtʰ
snake: nandam
snake: nan´dëmït
snake: nandɛmɨtʰ
snake: nandʌm
stand: tagaytog-
stand: tegh-
stand: tʰɛɣwor
stand: tʰʌgaytʰɔgor
star: gunyër
star: gunyər
star: gunyïrh
star: guɲɨr
stone: tʰaɣč ~ tʰaɣš
stone: taghïch
stone: taxim
stone: taxim
sun: mar
sun: mar
sun: marïrh
sun: marɨr
sun: mar-t
swim: φunit
tail: gërban
tail: gərbʌn
tail: gurßɛntʰ
tail: gurvënt
they: rë-m
they: rɛm
they two: rë-f
they two: rɛφ
think: kamuk
thorn: xoɣɛra-t
thou: ni
thou: ni
thou: ni
thou: nikɛm
thou: nu
three: hutsifi-tupar
three: hutsɪφɪtupar
three: xoshvírhpat
three: xošßirpʰatʰ
throat: ɲuŋgram-t
throw: tu-
today: xrayφ
tomorrow: dɨßa
tongue: tork
tongue: torkʰ
tongue: tʰortʰ
tooth: bɪčɛtʰ ~ bɪšɛtʰ
tooth: bisam
tooth: bɪsʌm
tree: mɨč ~ mɨš
tree: mïch
tree: mim
tree: mim
tree: mïsh
two: hutsif
two: hutsiφ
two: xochif
two: xoshif
two: xošɪφ ~ xočiφ
vagina: φɨtɨt
walk: kit
walk: wiyawiya-
walk: wiyawiyawor
wallaby: wilgapor
wallaby: wilgapor
wallaby: wirɨɣɛßɨr
wallaby: wirï´ghëvïrh
warm: kïka-ghétït
warm: kɨkʰaɣetʰ
warm: kɨkʰaɣetʰ
water: bukbam
water: bukbam
water: bupam
water: bupʰam
weep: nur-
we (excl.): nɛm
we: nam
we: nëm
we: nʌm
wet: bupétït
wet: bupʰetɨtʰ
we two (excl.): nɛ
we two: në
what: finyi
what: ta´mëgït
what: tʰamɛɣɨtʰ φiɲɟi
white: gaɲɛmɨtʰ
white: gá´nyëmït
white: gaynyamt
white: gaynyʌmtʰ
who: frëghërh
who: prɛɣɛr
wind: wißɛrtʰ
wind: wißotʰ
wind: wivërht
wind: wivot
wing: biernam
wing: biɛrnam
wing: bírnat
wing: bɪrnatʰ
woman: metït
woman: metɨtʰ
woman: metum
woman: metum
yellow: gontipan
yellow: gontʰipʰan
yes: wa
yes: wa
you: nikëm
you two: nißɨn
you two: nivïn
