ankle: kudinyu
ankle: nambiyë karëngën
arm: mutiri
arm: mutiri
arm: nama
arm: nama
arm: nama
arrow: biburu
arrow: biburu
ashes: cau
ashes: caw
ashes: caw
ashes: caw
ashes: cou
ashes: cou
ashes: shau
back: tanyumbu
back: tayëmbu
bad: bare (yu)
bark: ja-ewep
bark: ja-ewep
bark: (ja-)ewup
bark: lewep
belly: nimbu
belly: nimbu
belly: nimbu-tsu
big: demaren
big: dëmaren
big: demarin
big: domare
big: you komon
bird: ei
bird: ei
bird: ei
bird: ey
bird: ey
bird: ey
bite: ngawungguntan
bitter: osom
bitter: usom
black: kafu
black: kapu
black: kapu
black: kapu
black: kapu
black: kapu
blood: awar
blood: awar
blood: awar
blood: awar
blood: owar
blood: owar
blood: owar
blood: owar
bone: ari
bone: ari
bone: ari
bone: ari
bone: ari
bone: ari
branch: (ja-)yanggan
branch: kai
breast: nep
breast: nep
breast: nep
breast: nep
breast: nep
breast: nep ou
breast: nep ou
breathe: urima kurumi
brother: bosi
brother: nganini kam
brother: on kake
brother: wautuga
butterfly: ei-kakoro
butterfly: ei-kukoru
butterfly: ei-kukuru
calf: firnimbue
calf: nambiy-ari
calf: nambiyë-pir
calf: picat ari
calf: pirminbu
cassowary: war
cassowary: war(t)
cheek: komtu
cheek: oytu
cheek: poe
chest: bur
chest: bur
child: wa
child: wa
child: wanggin
chin: dicu
chin: dicu
cloud: inom
cloud: koangan
cloud: kungën
come: moyu
come: moyu
come: moyu
come: moyu
come: moyu
crocodile: waicon
crocodile: wa(i)con
crocodile: waičon
crocodile: waičon
crocodile: waison
cut: tiruntan
day: apkem
die: dutin
dig: aronggotan
dog: anəŋgen
dog: anəŋgen
dog: awanggan
dog: awang(g)an
dog: awëngen
dog: awënggen
dog: aweŋgen
dog: aweŋgen
drink: mowin
drink: muwuntan
drink: muwuntan
drink: muwuntan
dry: ësei
dry: kakara
dry: kakere
ear: faewnggen
ear: faweŋgen
ear: faweŋgen
ear: puanggan
ear: pyawanggën
earth: kapere
earth: kapere
earth: kapure
earth: kaupere
earth: kawpere
earth: kawpere
earth: nangan
eat: emango
eat: emaŋo
eat: emaŋo
eat: emengo
eat: icuruntan
eat: mongujo
eat: ngoumume
eat: ngouwotan
eat: ŋouwotan
eat: ŋouwotan
egg: koko
egg: koko
egg: kuku
egg: kuku
egg: kuku
egg: kuku
egg: kuku
elbow: nama-karana
elbow: name-pu
excrement: ku
eye: karanggoa
eye: karëno
eye: karinggewa
eye: karinggewa
eye: kariŋgewa
fall: jarunan
far: auga
father: mami
father: mami
father: mami
father: niyai
father: niyani
fat (n.): monan
fat (n.): monan
fat (n.): muna
feather: (ei-)u
feather: ey-u
feather: u
fingernail: nam-anggan
fingernail: nam-wanggan
fingernail: nam-wanggan
fingernail: namwaŋgan
finger: nama-nga(i)
finger: nambiyë wau
finger: nambiye-wu
finger: nambu-wau
finger: name-wau
finger: namo-wau
finger: wau matawun
fire: paɲ
fire: pain
fire: pai(n)
fire: pa(i)ni
fire: pa(i)ni
fire: payŋ
fish: niɲi
fish: ninye
fish: ninyi
fish: ninyi
five: namau
five: namau
fly (n.): masafur
fly (n.): masapup
fly (n.): masapur
fly (n.): masapur
fly (n.): mësafup
foot: nambiyi
forehead: picap
forehead: pica:p
forehead: picat
forest: dufe
forest: dugwaipe
forest: dupe
four: apera
four: apëra
four: apra
fruit: i
fruit: o:
fruit: ou
fruit: o(u)
full: dudurun
give: erome
give: -jan-
give: junggunan
give: junggunan
give: ɟuŋgunan
good: nayjunung
good: nayjunung
good: nayɟunuŋ
good: ngajunum
good: ngajunun
good: nggayjunung
grass: ondam
grass: undan
grass: yeyei
green: keker
green: keker
guts: nimbu
guts: nimbu-ni
hair: fupiyi
hair: fyufuyi
hair: piopiye
hair: pioupië
hair: pioupiə
hair: pyapiwë
hair: u
hair: yowum
hand: nama
hand: nama
hand: name
hand: name
head: tuni
head: t(un)i-yinggan
head: tuni-yinggan
head: tuni-yinggan
head: tuni-yinggan
head: tuniyiŋgan
hear: fuatro-
hear: fuatrotan
hear: puatre
heavy: ere
heavy: iri
heavy: iri
heel: nambiyi kerengen
heel: namsu
here: atene
he/she: nga-ne
he/she: nga-ni
hit: ni-giume
hit: niyunan
hole: yape
hole: yape
house: mo
house: mo
house: mo
house: mo
husband: nganon
husband: nganon
I: mene
I: me-ne
I: me-ne
I: mi-ni
in: arimten
kill: yanwuntan
kill: yauwuntan
knee: namsu
knee: namsu
knee: namsu
leaf: piye
leaf: piyi
leaf: piyi
leaf: piyi
leg: nambiye
leg: nambiyë
leg: nambiyi
leg: nëmbia
leg: nəmbia
lightning: areu
lightning: hareu
lip: buetu
lip: umië
live: sip
live: yosip
long: mosar
long: mosar
long: musa
louse: ami
louse: ami
louse: ami
louse: ami
louse: ami
man: onwatuya
man: watuga
man: watuga
man: watuga
man: watuwa
man: watuwa
many: ijüturu
many: puar
many: uju tuturu
meat: youwi
meat: youwi
meat: yowi
meat: yowi
moon: patrau
moon: patrau
moon: pëstërau
moon: petrau
moon: potarau
morning: urumuse
morning: urumusi
mosquito: bep(ë)ri
mosquito: bipri
mosquito: bueperi
mosquito: mbyeyfiri
mother: ngani
mother: ngga
mother: ng(g)a
mountain: ugwe
mountain: ugwe
mountain: uwe
mountain: uwi
mountain: uwi
mouth: ari-apë
mouth: arim
mouth: arim
mouth: arim
mouth: ari-yape
mouth: këray
name: aror
name: aror
name: aror
name: aror
name: aror
nape: patri
nape: patri
nape: patri
narrow: kuikoi
navel: bëtom
navel: botom
near: yotou
neck: mauru
neck: maworo
neck: mawuru
new: augau
new: manjeren
new: wansiyan
night: orim
night: urim
night: urim
night: urim
night: urim
nose: umiyapë
nose: umiyë
nose: unye
nose: unyi
nose: unyi yapi
old: engkasiye
old: kasiyi
old: on kasiyi
old: on kasiyi
one: opainun
one: opo
one: upu
one: upu
one: upu
one: upu
person: on
person: on
person: on(on)
person: on(um)
rain: ap
rain: ap
rain: ap
rain: hap
rat: ësom
rat: kabeke
rat: kabeke
rat: kabeke
rat: këbëke
red: nonggo
red: nunggu
red: nunggu
ripe: nuëngu
ripe: nunggu
river: pure
river: pure
river: wai
river: yarim
road: nip
road: nip
road: nip
root: ibe
root: ibi
root: ibi
root: nii
rope: ni
rope: ni
round: kakpor
sand: konen
sand: konen
sand: konen
sand: konin
say: anayandotan
say: poruntan
sea: fota
sea: nggofay
seed: o:
seed: u
see: kapr-
see: kapr-
see: kapre
see: kapr-ung
see: kapruŋgunan
short: tutu
short: tutu
short: tutu
shoulder: muteri
shoulder: pari
sing: yapi korotan
sister: inggin ungga
sister: kam matam
sister: kam munjem
sister: nganumar matan
sister: uanumar
sit: atradiatu
sit: atradiatu
sit: atradiatu
skin: im
skin: yowyim
skin: yow yim
skin: yow yim
skin: yoyim
skin: yoyim
sky: koënggen
sky: kuweŋgen
sky: kuwinggen
sleep: pem
sleep: pembeta-
sleep: pembeta-
sleep: pembetannya
sleep: prunggame
small: inggiwa
small: ingyoa
small: kukua
smoke: ipum
smoke: ipum
smoke: ipum
snake: ekapim
snake: ekapim
snake: ekapim
snake: ekapim
some: pambest
some: pambi
sour: ikior
sour: usom
spit: aricung(g)un
spit: aricunggun paturuntan
stand: api
star: taugap
star: taugwab
star: waror
star: wëror
star: woror
stone: kara
stone: kara
stone: kara
stone: kare
stone: kare
stone: kora
sun: omar
sun: omar
sun: omar
sun: omar
sun: umar
sweet: monan
sweet: munan
swim: anekote
swim: aru-waro-tan
tail: binteu
tail: bintu
tail: dum
tail: dum
tail: dum
tail: dum
take: erunan
that: bete(ne)
that: bintini
they: betonoxu
they: kombi
they: kumbi
they: me
they two: kaimbi pugwai
they two: kainybi pugai
thigh: kombom
thigh: kombom
thin: pirwa
this: ate
thou: me
thou: we
thou: we
thou: we
thou: we
three: namguai
three: namguai
three: naunggaey
three: naunggwai
throw: yangganduntan
thunder: wafara
thunder: wafere
thunder: wapëre
today: manji
tomorrow: oniya
tomorrow: unegia
tomorrow: uniya
tongue: fiyarir
tongue: fiyarir
tongue: piarip
tongue: piyarit
tooth: iti
tooth: itini
tooth: itini
tooth: itini
tooth: itini
tree: ja
tree: ja
tree: ja(op)
tree: (ja-)yenggan
tree: ya-yenggan
tree: ya-yeŋgan
tree: ǯa
two: fuwai
two: pugaey
two: puguai
two: pugwai
two: pugwai
two: pugwai
vagina: adi
walk: wane-meme
walk: wa(r)-
walk: waro-me
wallaby: ugai
wallaby: u(g)wai
wallaby: uwai
warm: namu
water: yarim
water: yarim
water: yarim
water: yarim
water: yarim
weep: imu
weep: karangapo
weep: karempo
weep: karinggepo
we (incl.): ngabepase
we: ngama
we: ngama
we: ŋama
we: ngame
wet: kainjan
wet: kanjan
we two: ngapa pugai
we two: ngape puguai
what: eme
white: faumbwan
white: faumgwan
white: pambuan
white: paumbam
who: on
wife: ngaimin
wife: ngaimin
wife: ngaimin
wife: ngaimin
wind: more
wind: morë
wind: mori
wind: muri
wind: muri
wing: paremi
wing: paumi
wing: paumië
wing: paunge
wing: paunye
woman: ona wue
woman: um
woman: ungga
woman: ungga
woman: uŋga
wood: yanggan
wood: yang(g)an
wood: ǯa
yellow: yangan
yellow: yanggan
yesterday: peu
yesterday: peu
you: kumbe
you: me
you: me
you: me
you two: pe pugai
you two: pe-pugwai
you: we
