ankle: giḷi
ankle: giḷi
arm: maṇgu
ashes: balba
back: d̪aṇa
back: d̪aṇa-biɹ̣n̪a
back: muḷu
bad: d̪uḷaga
bark: bal̪d̪a
bark: bald̪a
belly: galɟu
belly: ganaɲa
belly: ganaɲa
belly: gundu
big: gumbaɟa
big: wiḍu
bite: baḍa-
bite: baḍa-
bite: manda-
bitter: gad̪i ~ gad̪iga
black: gugiriga
blood: gandara
blood: gaːndara
blood: gaːndara d̪iːgala-
blow: buːba-
blow: wad̪a-
bone: biɹ̣n̪a
bone: birn̪̪a
boy: maḷi-baḷu
branch: biːd̪ili
branch: ŋandaɲa
breast: ŋama
breast: ŋama
breathe: d̪awi-
brother: baḷuɟa
brother: gaːguɟa
burn: d̪uːba-
burn: wanda-
burn: wandi-
butterfly: bilɟu-bilɟuga
butterfly: gaːlbi-gaːlbiga
calf: maɟiri
cheek: ŋaḷi
chest: buna
chest: buna
child: muːrba
child: muːrba
chin: muḍi
claw: mili
cloud: d̪uːru
cloud: gaḷuru
cloud: gaḷuru
cloud: garuduba
cloud: ŋinda
cloud: ŋinda
cold: gaʎiru
cold: yagi
come: bari-ba-
come: waba-
count: yalba-la-
cut: banda-
cut: banda-
cut: d̪aga-
cut: gad̪a-gad̪a-
cut: n̪uːga-
cut: waga-
cut: waga-
day: yugu
die: buga
die: buga-(ma)la-
dig: d̪amba-
dig: d̪unga-
dirty: ŋaːmuru
dirty: ŋuṇi
dog: gaḷi
dog: gaḷi
drink: wiːɟa-
dry: d̪aḷa
dust: bud̪ara
ear: maŋa
earth: maṇḍi
earth: maṇḍi
ear: yuɹ̣i
ear: yuri
eat: d̪ayi-
eat: d̪ayi-
eat: ŋaɲu-
egg: baḍi
egg: baḍi
egg: biːɟi
egg: gaːɹ̣iga
egg: mil̪d̪iga
egg: ŋamalu
elbow: gubu
elbow: gubu
emu: gal̪d̪i
emu: gald̪i
eye: miːgi
eye: miːgi
eye: miːŋu-bulgi
face: bigu
face: miri
fall: baːŋa-
fall: gaːɲa
fall: ŋaːŋga-
far: bariɟiri
father: gambiɟa
father: gambiɟa
fat (n.): maṇi
fat (n.): ŋuɹ̣i
fat (n.): ŋuri
fear: ŋuːya-
feather: bulgi
feather: mal̪d̪ara
fight: baḍi-
finger: maɹ̣a
fingernail: mili
fingernail: mili
finger: ŋamaga-maɹ̣a
fire: d̪ibi ~ d̪iɹ̣ba
fire: guniga
fire: guniga
fire: ŋaɲa
float: bama-la-
float: d̪ag-mala-
float: iːga-
flower: buṇi
flow: wamba-
fly (n.): buḷara
fly (n.): wiŋuru
fly (n.): wiŋuru
fly (v.): wambi-
fog: ŋaniɲa
foot: d̪ina
foot: d̪ina
foot: waḍa
forehead: bigu
forehead: bigu
full: baṇḍi
girl: n̪uːŋgu baḷu
give: ŋuːga
give: ŋuga-
good: baliriga ~ baliːra
grass: gulda
grass: mudu
green: n̪umbarga
guts: guna-baḷga
guts: gundu
guts: n̪amu
hair: bulgi
hair: bulgi
hair: maḍu-bulgi
hand: maɹ̣a
hand: mara
head: d̪aḍu
head: d̪aḍu
hear: baːra-
hear: baːri-
hear: d̪aldi-
hear: d̪aldi-
hear: d̪aldi-
heart: buḷu
heart: buḷu
heart: buḷu-ganila
heavy: d̪aguli ~ d̪aguda
here: id̪u
he/she: ŋad̪u
he/she: ŋad̪u
he/she: ŋan̪a
hit: balga-
hit: balga-
hold: bid̪a-
hold: ŋarga-ŋarga
hold: n̪irba-
hole: miŋga
house: buːŋga
house: guʎi
husband: maḷi
ice: baːŋgaɹ̣a
ice: ŋandaɟa
I: ŋaːba
I: ŋaːba
I: ŋaːd̪u
I: ŋayi
I: ŋayi
jaw: waga
kangaroo: d̪aḷḍa
kangaroo: girbaɟa
kangaroo: girbaɟa
kangaroo: guḷu
kill: buga-ma-
knee: d̪ingi
knee: d̪in-gi
know: waːnda-
lake: d̪ildagara
laugh: giːnda-
laugh: giːnda-
leaf: buːwuru
left: yaŋguɟa
leg: yalgu
lie: iba-
lie: ima ~ ŋima
lightning: baḷab-mala-
lightning: bindi
lip: mimi
liver: d̪aŋguɲa
liver: d̪aŋguɲa
long: baːḷuru
louse: d̪irgiɲa
louse: miḍiɟa
louse: ŋudu
louse: wiŋgaːna
man: maḷi
man: maḷi
many: d̪uluru
many: d̪uluru
many: mad̪iri
meat: maːnba
moon: baːɟuga
moon: baːɟuga
morning: gariŋga-n̪aŋgi
morning: miŋgi
mosquito: gundi
mother: ŋamaga
mother: ŋamaga
mountain: d̪ud̪ulu
mountain: d̪ud̪ulu
mountain: magu
mouth: yalga
mouth: yalga
name: migi
name: n̪iːgi
nape: buːmba-
narrow: gaɟilugu
navel: wiːngu
near: d̪aʎba
near: ganga
neck: baṇba
new: baḷu
new: mad̪ara
night: d̪uŋga
not: gila
not: gila
old: gaːndiɲa
old: maḍa
old: wiḍu
old: wiḍu
one: ŋiɟa
one: ŋiɟa
other: gaːru
other: guda
person: wiːmbaɟa
person: wimbaɟa
play: guḷi-
pull: bida-
pull: malga-
pull: waːra-
push: buḷgi-
rain: d̪ud̪a-
rain: d̪ulgu-
rain: magara
rain: magara
rain: magara baːda-
rat: mangu
red: ŋalgina ~ ŋalgirga
right: n̪urani
right: wangaraːga
ripe: ŋuːŋgi
river: baːga
road: d̪ina-yaba
road: yaṇga
road: yud̪uru
root: baḷgara
rope: baḷga
rotten: buga
rotten: n̪umba-la
round: garaɟa
rub: d̪iːdi-d̪iːdi-la-
rub: ŋunda
salt: d̪aḷḍuŋa
sand: d̪iɹ̣i
sand: garaɲa
sand: giṇḍi
say: gulbi-
say: gulda-
scratch: maɹ̣a-maɹ̣a-
scratch: widu-widu-
sea: guḷuru
see: bami-
see: bami-
seed: baːba
seed: guyuru
see: gali-
sew: d̪ulga-
sharp: buɟala
sharp: garaŋga
short: gad̪uga
short: muguɟa
short: yaṇi
shoulder: bigi
shoulder: gaɹ̣d̪a
shoulder: ŋiḷi-biɹ̣n̪a
sing: bagi-
sister: waːdiɟa
sister: wiḍuga
sit: iːnga- ~ ŋiːnga-
sit: (ŋ)iːn-ga-
skin: bal̪d̪a
skin: bald̪a
skin: n̪ara-
skin: yuṇi
sky: galgara
sky: gargaɲa
sky: gargaɲa
sleep: bumba-
sleep: ima- ~ nima-
small: gaɟilugu
small: gaɟilugu
small: muguɟa
smoke: bundu
smoke: bundu
smooth: waʎ-
snake: d̪uru
snake: d̪uru
snow: gaṇu-gaṇu
sour: gad̪i ~ gad̪iga
spit: gungu-
spit: ŋalɟa
squeeze: d̪ura-
stand: d̪alba-
stand: d̪ari-
star: buḷi
star: buḷi
star: miŋgi yanitani
star: ŋuːwala-ŋuːwala
stone: gaṇa
stone: gaṇu
straight: d̪aɹ̣ma
straight: yal̪d̪i
suck: d̪undi-la ~ d̪unɟa-
suck: d̪unɟi-
sun: yugu
sun: yugu
sweet: d̪umuːli
swell: bama-la-
swell: bulbula-
swim: iːga-
swim: wirga-
tail: gundara
take: gaːndi-
take: gaṇma-
take: mandi-
that: ŋan̪a
there: ŋan̪a
thick: d̪unɟu
thigh: gaɹ̣aya
thigh: garaya
thigh: garga
thigh: garga
think: yuri-yuri-
thin: n̪indaɟa
this: id̪u
thou: ŋimba
thou: ŋimba
thou: ŋindu
thou: ŋuḍa
thou: ŋuḍana
thou: ŋuḍana
thou: ŋuma
throat: baṇba
throw: malba-
throw: ŋaːḍa-
thunder: binda
tie: muni-
tomorrow: gariŋgi
tongue: d̪aḷiɲa
tongue: d̪aḷiɲa
tooth: ŋandi
tree: yara
tree: yara
turn: d̪amba-d̪amba
turn: d̪uːga-
turn: ŋaḍi-
two: bargula
two: bargulu
vagina: bud̪u
vagina: maḍu
vomit: maṇḍa-
walk: bara-
walk: bari-
walk: bari-
walk: bari-
walk: bari-
walk: gaʎa-
walk: gaʎa-
warm: n̪aŋgi
warm: wabiḷga
wash: ŋuʎa-
water: ŋugu
water: ŋugu
weep: ŋaga
weep: niːra-
weep: yanda-
we (incl.): ŋina
we (incl.): ŋina
we: ŋinana
we: ŋinana
wet: guṇgu
we two (incl.): ŋali
we two (incl.): ŋali
we two (incl.): ŋalina
what: miɲa
what: min̪a
where: winɟa
where: winɟara
white: baːɟirga
who: winɟiga
wide: bad̪ara
wife: gumbaga
wife: gumbaga
wind: yaḍu
wind: yaḍu
wing: waɲi
woman: n̪uŋgu
woman: n̪uːŋgu
woman: n̪uːŋgu
wood: bira-baḷu
wood: ŋuːgugu
wood: yara
worm: d̪uːnba
worm: d̪unmara
yellow: bildi
yesterday: ilaːgu
you two: ŋuba
you two: ŋubana
you two: ŋubana
you two: ŋubu
you two: ŋubuna
you two: ŋubuna
