ankle: segikanan
ankle: segikanan
ankle: sog-u-kodabe
ankle: sog\ u\ kodabe
ankle: sukukassi
arm: bodo(le)
arm: bodo(le)
arm: ia
arm: ia
arm: ia
arm: ia
arm: ia
arm: iaara-mis\ombe
arm: ianata fande
arm: iara mišiombe
arm: iare-tafande
arm: ya
arm: ya
arrow: fode
arrow: fod-u-komome
ashes: foye
ashes: foye
ashes: hoi
ashes: hoi
ashes: houa
back: bane
back: bane
back: bano
back: bano
bad: ko
bad: ko
bad: koena
bad: ko(ye)
bad: ko(ye)
belly: habe
belly: habe
belly: habera
belly: hombo
belly: hombo
belly: hombo
belly: hombo
belly: obo
belly: obo
belly: ombo(le)
belly: ombo(le)
big: baibe
big: baibe
big: baibe
big: baibe
big: eminogi
big: mataka
big: mataka
bird: membe
bird: membe
bird: neba
bird: neba
bird: nebe
bird: nebe
bird: nemba
bird: nembe
bird: nembe
bird: tubureda
bite: angale
bite: aŋale
bite: itede
bite: itede
bitter: beekoi
bitter: beːkoi
black: duba
black: duba
black: dube
black: dube
black: dube
blood: tana
blood: tana
blood: tana(le)
blood: tana(le)
blood: tanara
bone: fude
bone: fude
bone: kunia
bone: ufudi
bone: ufudi
boy: isoko
boy: me
boy: me
branch: bodo(le)
branch: bodo(le)
branch: gobe
branch: gobe
branch: uga
branch: uga
breast: duda
breast: duda
breast: ouba
breast: ouba
breast: ouba\ ul\ unge
breast: ouba-ul-uŋe
brother: ena(ne)
butterfly: kaneke
butterfly: kaneke
butterfly: keneke
butterfly: keneke
butterfly: maiabinava
calf: fande
calf: fande
calf: furo
calf: furo
calf: mise
calf: mise
cheek: hanan
cheek: hanan
cheek: omenge
cheek: omeŋe
chest: bononga
chest: bonoŋa
chest: kavale
chest: kavale
chest: konode
chest: konode
chest: kononda
chest: kononda
child: ame(le)
child: amuri
child: ayame(le)
child: ese
child: ese
child: ese
child: ese
child: ese
child: isa
child: isa
child: isia
child: isia
child: isoko
child: me
child: me
child: mele
child: me(le)
chin: ana
chin: ana
chin: ana
chin: ana
chin: ana
chin: ana
chin: ana
claw: bodo
claw: bodo
claw: fodo(le)
claw: fodo(le)
claw: koko
claw: koko
cloud: unu(me)
cloud: unu(me)
cold: dudura
cold: dudure
cold: dudure
cold: yuyuma
cold: yuyuma
come: hinga
come: hiŋa
come: iso
come: tsia
come: tsia
come: yeterun
come: yeterun
crocodile: fua
crocodile: fua
crocodile: fuai
crocodile: fuai
cut: ememe
dark: budubodegu
dark: gerenama
dark: gerenema
dark: tu(be)
dark: tu(be)
day: ev-ul-aveve
day: ev\ ul\ aveve
day: evurima
day: evurima
die: usa
die: usaga
die: usaga
die: usangege
die: usaŋege
dig: mudi
dig: mudi
dig: tsie
dig: tsie
dog: fu
dog: fu
dog: ho
dog: ho
dog: hoa
dog: hoa
dog: hoa
dog: hu
dog: hu
dog: hu
dog: hu
dog: oi(e)
dog: oi(e)
drink: eu naida
drink: eu\ naida
drink: nene
drink: nene
ear: gadero
ear: gadero
ear: gaderu
ear: gaderu
ear: gadolo
ear: gadoro
ear: gadoro
ear: i
ear: i
earth: bu
earth: bu
earth: bu(le)
earth: bu(le)
earth: bu(le)
earth: fa
earth: fa
earth: fa(la)
earth: fa(le)
earth: fa(le)
earth: fa(le)
earth: fa(le)
earth: fa(le)
earth: hoa
earth: hoa
earth: hoa
earth: hoa
ear: yangola(me)
ear: yaŋolo(me)
eat: adako naida
eat: adako\ naida
eat: iaruma
eat: iaruma
eat: nene
eat: nene
egg: hoboro
egg: obo
egg: obo
egg: ombo(le)
egg: ombo(le)
elbow: bodol-u-kodabe
elbow: bodol\ u\ kodabe
elbow: hikanan
elbow: hukunan
elbow: iara-kasi
elbow: iara kassi
elbow: ya koba
elbow: ya\ koba
emu: vasa
eye: e
eye: e
eye: emurese
eye: ima
eye: i(-ma)
eye: i(me)
eye: i(me)
eye: indamane
eye: i(ng)
eye: i(ŋ)
eye: ingob\ u\ male
eye: iŋob-u-male
eye: ing\ ode
eye: iŋ ode
eye: ing\ uba
eye: iŋ uba
eye: yago
eye: yago
face: hodu
face: mede
face: mede
face: yodoge
face: yodoge
far: busara
far: busara
far: gisa(le)
far: gisa(le)
father: ba
father: ba
father: babe
father: ba(be)
father: ba(be)
father: bane
father: bane
fear: undede
fear: undede
feather: fala(le)
feather: ma(le)
feather: ma(le)
feather: nibuma
feather: pame
feather: pame
feather: vasa
feather: wasa
feather: wasa
finger: bodol\ u\ feneme
finger: bodol-u-gobe
finger: bodol\ u\ gobe
finger: bodol\ u\ gobe
finger: bodol-u-mame
finger: bodol\ u\ mame
finger: bodol\ u\ mame
finger: bodol\ u\ talave
finger: hugube
finger: hu-gube
finger: hu-tarofe
finger: iaru-ma
fingernail: bodong
fingernail: bodoŋ
fingernail: fodo(le)
fingernail: fodo(le)
fingernail: iakundube
fingernail: iakundube
fingernail: koko
finger: naria
finger: naria
finger: sukugube
finger: taruma
finger: yaro goba
finger: yaro\ goba
fire: oke
fire: oke
fire: okia
fire: okia
fire: okia
fire: okia
fire: oki (de)
fire: oki (de)
fire: uki
fire: uki
fish: garume
fish: garume
fish: garung
fish: garuŋ
fish: mada
fish: unuma
fish: unuma (?)
five: umindana
flower: oyande
flower: oyande
flower: sive
flower: sive
flower: unida
flower: unida
fly (n.): sigarum
fly (n.): sigurum
fly (n.): suguru
fly (n.): sungulu(me)
fly (n.): suŋulu(me)
fly (v.): iyei
fly (v.): iyei
fog: hunu
fog: hunu
fog: unu(me)
fog: unu(me)
foot: hu tobo
foot: hu\ tobo
foot: so(ge)
foot: so(ge)
foot: sogo
foot: sogo
foot: sog-u-tobo
foot: sog\ u\ tobo
foot: suga
foot: suga
foot: suge
foot: suge
foot: suge
foot: sukutobo
foot: suku(-tobu)
foot: -tobu
foot: yovali
foot: yovali
forehead: anone
forehead: anone
forehead: ingobe
forehead: iŋ-obe
forehead: mede
forehead: mede
forehead: mida
forehead: mida
forest: bu
forest: bu
forest: mavane
forest: siu(le)
forest: tsiu(le)
forest: tsiu(le)
four: iuara-tuiara
fruit: dede
fruit: dede
fruit: iudede
girl: ame(le)
girl: amuri
girl: amurioiori
girl: amurisiori
girl: hami
give: g\eihete
give: ide
give: ide
give: indi
give: indi
good: ifa(ne)
good: ifi
good: namana
grass: tsu(le)
guts: gige
guts: gige
guts: taride
guts: taride
hair: alome
hair: alome
hair: ha
hair: ha
hair: ha
hair: ha
hair: ha
hair: ha
hair: makoko
hair: ma(le)
hair: ma(le)
hand: bodo(le)
hand: bodo(le)
hand: bodol-u-tobo
hand: bodol\ u\-tobo
hand: ia
hand: ia
hand: ia
hand: ia
hand: ia(ra)
hand: iara-tobo
hand: iaruse
hand: ia-tobo
hand: ia\tobo
hand: tara
hand: -tobo
hand: ya
hand: yaratobo
hand: yaro uba
hand: yaro\ uba
head: ade(de)
head: ade(de)
head: giginafe
head: ha
head: ha
head: ha
head: ha
head: ha
head: ha
head: hoa
head: hondu
head: hondu
hear: alele
hear: alele
here: a(le)
he/she: derudaga
he/she: u
he/she: ula(ne)
he/she: u(ne)
he/she: u(-ni)
hole: olo
house: e
house: e
house: e
house: e
house: e(m)
house: e(m)
house: ema
house: e(me)
house: e(me)
house: emo(ne)
husband: a(ne)
husband: a(ne)
husband: harea
I: na
I: na
I: na
I: nahu
I: nahu
I: na-ni
I: nanio
I: na-nio
I: nau
I: naula(ne)
kill: adede
kill: adede
kill: ememe
kill: ememe
knee: amia
knee: amia
knee: amia
knee: amiang
knee: amiaŋ
know: tsitsiva
know: tsitsiva
leaf: idu
leaf: idu
leaf: idu
leaf: idu
leaf: idu-rutu
leaf: itu
leaf: itu
leaf: tu(le)
leaf: tu(le)
leaf: utu
leaf: utu
leg: inako
leg: keniame
leg: suku misuombe
leg: suku-misuombe
leg: yovali
leg: yovali
lip: uau (?)
lip: uba
lip: uba
lip: ude
lip: ude
lip: ude
lip: ude
lip: ude
lip: ude
lip: udu
lip: udu
live: asi
live: asihera
live: asihera
live: asilando
live: asilando
liver: dube
liver: dube
liver: hade
liver: hade
long: busa
long: busa
long: sesada
long: sesada
louse: hi
louse: hi
louse: hi
louse: i(ye)
louse: i(ye)
louse: kasin
louse: kasin
louse: yo(le)
louse: yo(le)
man: a
man: a
man: a
man: a(ne)
man: a(ne)
man: avoge
man: avoge
man: inuga
man: inugu
many: haruf
many: harui
many: tale
many: tale
many: taluvi
many: tauvi
meat: hude
meat: misa
meat: misa
meat: mise
meat: mise
moon: hama
moon: hama
moon: hama
moon: hama
moon: hama
moon: hoana
moon: hoːaːna
moon: one
moon: one
morning: heitere
morning: heitsirine bisiri
morning: tutsi
morning: tutsi
mosquito: igogesa
mosquito: igogesa
mosquito: maingogo
mosquito: maiŋogo
mother: mah\
mother: ma(me)
mother: ma(me)
mother: uma
mother: uma
mountain: bunga
mountain: buŋa
mountain: kume
mountain: kume
mountain: kumo
mountain: kumo
mouth: adinu
mouth: adinu
mouth: ambode
mouth: ambode
mouth: gobang
mouth: gobaŋ
mouth: ude
mouth: ude
mouth: ude
mouth: ude
name: i(-ve)
name: i(ve)
nape: indu
nape: indu
navel: habera
navel: habera
navel: koboro
navel: koboro
navel: kombolu
navel: kombolu
navel: kumburu
navel: kumburu
near: kugume
near: kugume
near: kuguraga
near: kuguraga
neck: fida
neck: gurube
neck: gurube
night: putuperere
night: tu(be)
night: tu(be)
nose: hunge
nose: unga
nose: unga
nose: unge
nose: ung\ ul\ olo
nose: uŋ-ul-olo
nose: unuga
nose: unuga
nose: urorong
nose: uroroŋ
not: huano
not: mi
not: mi
not: ua(ne)
not: ua(ne)
not: whano
one: fidana
one: fidana
rain: iangose
rain: iangose
rain: iaŋose
rain: iaŋuše
rain: iangushe
rain: yagosa
rain: yagose
rain: yangose
rain: yangose
rain: yaŋose
rat: giliminde
rat: giliminde
rat: sui
rat: sui
red: boratu
red: ilalama
red: ilalama
red: polatu
river: iu
river: yu(ve)
river: yu(ve)
road: ara
road: ara
road: enaba
road: enaba
road: enambe
road: enambe
road: enambo
road: enambo
road: foida
root: iysu
root: okusi
root: okusili
root: okusili
rope: konange
rope: konaŋe
rope: yu
rope: yu
salt: ama
salt: ama
salt: ama(ne)
salt: ama(ne)
salt: hanamo
salt: hanamo
sand: sanga(ve)
sand: saŋa(ve)
sand: soana
sand: soːaːna
say: ave(te)
say: ave(te)
scratch: fifiete
scratch: fifiete
scratch: sisilimi
sea: isa
sea: isa
sea: ise
sea: ise
sea: kavara
see: ariri
see: ariri
see: eage
short: ono(ve)
shoulder: kosa
shoulder: kosa
shoulder: matange
shoulder: mataŋe
sister: eta(de)
sit: tegid ande
sit: tegid\ ande
skin: hode
skin: hode
skin: nengere
skin: neŋere
skin: ode
skin: ode
skin: ode
sky: asolo(ne)
sky: asolo(ne)
sky: asoro
sky: asoro
sleep: imaritade
sleep: imaritade
sleep: imauride
sleep: imurida
sleep: imurida
small: aka(ne)
small: aka(ne)
small: ami-aga
small: ami\aga
small: kisi
small: kisi
small: kisi-aka(ne)
small: kisibaga
small: kisibaga
smell: tovogi
smoke: ishio
smoke: ishiona
smoke: išiona
smoke: isoa
smoke: isoːaː
smoke: iso(ne)
smoke: iso(ne)
smoke: isong
smoke: isoŋ
snake: hemai
snake: hemai
snake: tsivili
snake: tsivili
son: ese
spit: sabe
spit: sabe
spit: sabete
split: itu(ili)
stand: yu
stand: yu
star: alile
star: alile
star: duba
star: duba
star: hama-dofee
star: harira
star: harira
stone: bute
stone: bute
stone: butia
stone: butia
stone: io
stone: io
stone: io
stone: io
stone: io
sun: eurima
sun: eve
sun: eve
sun: evurima
sun: evurima
sun: ewu(ri)
sun: ewu(ri)
sun: uerima
sweet: bebena
that: -vala
there: va(le)
they: apagodago
they: ha-ru
they: mu
they: mula(ne)
they: tu(-ni)
they two: tu
they two: tula(le)
thick: kakava(ne)
thick: kakava(ne)
thigh: muda
thigh: muda
thigh: mude
thigh: mude
thigh: mude
thigh: mude
thigh: mude
thigh: mude
thin: fafale
thin: fafale
thin: garibe
thin: garibe
this: -ana
thou: nu
thou: nula(ne)
thou: nuni
thou: nunni
thou: sasana
thou: yi
thou: yula(ne)
three: iuara minda
three: iuara-minda
throat: aroro
throat: aroro
throat: hiudu
throat: kalolo
throat: kalolo
today: akuro
today: audati
today: audati
tomorrow: aiti
tomorrow: aiti
tomorrow: heitsiri
tomorrow: heitsiri
tongue: asese
tongue: asese
tongue: asese
tongue: asese
tongue: asiesa
tongue: asiesa
tongue: asisino
tongue: asisino
tongue: tsimi(-li)
tongue: usese
tongue: usese
tooth: ado
tooth: ado
tooth: ado
tooth: ado
tooth: ato(le)
tooth: ato(le)
tooth: atu
tooth: atu
tooth: sise
tooth: tsiba
tooth: usi
tooth: usi
tooth: usi(le)
tooth: usi(le)
tree: i
tree: i
tree: i
tree: i
tree: i(ye)
tree: i(ye)
two: iuara
two: iuara
walk: gege
walk: gege
walk: hego
walk: hego
walk: henga
walk: heŋa
walk: inga
walk: iŋa
walk: savisavinga
warm: giginafe
warm: giginafe
warm: giginafi
warm: oloa
warm: olola
wash: umbubi
water: eu(wa)
water: eu(wa)
water: iu
water: iu
water: iu
water: iu
water: iu(-ni)
water: yu
water: yu(ve)
water: yu(ve)
we: di
we: di(-ni)
we: diula(ne)
weep: andavel-ete
weep: andavel\ete
weep: availi
weep: availili
we (incl.): agego
we two (incl.): da
we two (incl.): daula(ne)
what: anda(le)
when: aida
where: do(le)
white: foa
white: foa
white: fofoye
white: fofoye
white: kogola
white: kogola
who: da(le)
wife: amu(le)
wife: amu(le)
wind: gubu(a)
wind: gubu(le)
wind: gubu(le)
wind: gubu(ra)
wing: geoge
wing: geoge
wing: pilulupe
wing: pilulupe
wipe: ivo(ri)
woman: amu
woman: amu
woman: amu
woman: amu
woman: amu
woman: amu(le)
woman: amu(le)
woman: amuri
woman: mamo
woman: mamo
wood: i
wood: i
wood: okiaga
wood: ora
wrist: bodol\ u\ gurube
wrist: ia\ u\ gidiba
yellow: yangogona
yellow: yaŋogona
yellow: yango(-ne)
yellow: yarem
yes: e
yes: e
yes: keteno
yesterday: arima
yesterday: arima
you: inavaniga
you two: ya
you two: yaula(ne)
you: yi(-ni)
