all: bugmag
all: bugmag
all: bugmag
all: däruwa
all: däruwa
all: guḷgu
all: warbain
all: warban
all: warban
ankle: duḷggun
ankle: duḷgun
ankle: ɟuḷgun
arm: ŋobur
arm: ŋɔbur
arm: ŋɔbur
arm: waːṇa
arm: waːṇa
arm: waṇa
ashes: dumuruḷ
ashes: ganu
ashes: ganu
back: dildɟi
back: dilɟi
back: dilɟi
back: dilɟiwa ŋaṛaga
back: ŋaṛaga
back: ŋaṛaga
back: ŋaṛaga
bad: muṛ\muṛun
bad: muṛ\muṛun
bad: ririmiri
bark: galŋa
bark: galŋa
bark: galŋu gandune\u̪
belly: gulun
belly: gulun
belly: gulun
belly: gulun
belly: gulun
belly: gulun
big: badala
big: badala
big: yindi
bird: wa\in
bird: waiyin
bird: waragan
bite: lawuma
bite: laːwuma
bite: laːwumo
bitter: lirawarmari
bitter: lirawarmir
bitter: lirawarmiri
black: gurŋan
black: mɔːl
black: Mɔːl
blood: gulaŋ
blood: gulaŋ
blood: gulaŋ
blood: gulaŋ
blood: maŋgo
blood: mango
blood: wuṛuŋgul
blood: wuɹ̣uŋgul
blow: buna
blow: bɒ\yun
blow: duŋguṛ\yun
blow: duŋguṛ\yun
blow: duŋguṛ\yun
bone: ŋaɹ̣aga
bone: ŋaɹ̣aga
bone: ŋaɹ̣aga
bone: ŋaṛaga
bone: ŋaṛaga
bone: ŋaṛaga
boy: garagu
boy: garagu
boy: garágu
boy: gormu\urmug
boy: gurmu\urmul
boy: yawurin
branch: mɛrgu
branch: mɛrgu
branch: mɛrgu
breathe: ŋari\yun
breathe: ŋiri\yun
breathe: ŋiri\yun
brother: gud̪̪̪a
brother: wawa
brother: wawa
brother: wawa
brother: yugoyugo
brother: yuguyugu
burn: daŋalgguma
burn: daŋalguma
burn: daŋalguma
burn: daŋalguma
burn: daŋalguma
burn: maḷban
butterfly: buṇba
butterfly: buṇba
butterfly: buṇba
cheek: dagal
cheek: dagal
cheek: dagal
chest: gomor
chest: gumur
chest: gumur
child: yod̪u
child: yud̪u
child: yuɟuala
chin: damunumun
chin: da munumun
chin: da munumun
cloud: maŋan
cloud: maŋan
cloud: waŋubini
cold: gwiyiŋar
cold: gwiːyiŋar
cold: wiligwilig
come: buna
come: buna
come: buna
correct: dunuba
correct: dunuba
correct: dunuba
crocodile: baṛo
crocodile: dinbal
crocodile: dinbal
cut: midd̪un
cut: midd̪un
cut: midd̪un
dark: bugumug
dark: bugumug
dark: waṛumug
daughter: gaːd̪u
daughter: gaːd̪u miäḷg
daughter: gad̪umiälg
day: daigunbuyi
day: mälmidba
day: milmidba
day: milmidba
day: walubuyi
day: waːlubuyi
die: diŋgama
die: mɔgɔi
die: mogoid̪iri
die: mɔgɔiḍiri
die: ṛagun̪
die: ṛagun̪
die: yubd̪un
die: yubd̪un
die: yubd̪un
dig: bilama
dig: biːlama
dig: biːláma
dirty: mɔi\miri
dirty: mɔi\miri
dirty: mɔi\miri
dog: waḍu
dog: waḍu
dog: wuŋgan̪
drink: ŋuḷgd̪un
drink: wuṛgd̪un
drink: wuṛgd̪un
dry: muḷga
dry: muḷga
dry: muḷgga
ear: bud̪uro
ear: bud̪uro
ear: bud̪uru
earth: munad̪a
earth: munad̪e
earth: ɟulga
eat: luga
eat: luga
eat: luga
egg: laɲar
egg: laiɲar
egg: mabu
egg: maibal
egg: maibal
elbow: ligan
elbow: ligan
elbow: noŋgur
emu: wurban
emu: wurban
emu: wurban
emu: wurban
emu: wurbaṇ
emu: wurbaṇ
eye: mil
eye: mil
eye: mil
eye: miːl
eye: miːl
eye: miːl
eye: mil barambar
eye: mil barambar
eye: mil barambar
eye: mil giriŋiṇ
eye: mil giriŋiṇ
eye: mil giriŋiṇ
face: bugu
face: bugu
face: bugu
fall: gäḷggiri
fall: gaḷggiri
father: baba
father: baba
father: baba
fat (n.): ɟugur
fat (n.): ɟugur
fat (n.): ɟugur
fear: barariri
fear: barariri
fear: barariri
fear: barariri
fear: barariri
feather: binbar
feather: binbar
feather: waːŋa
few: lurgun
few: waṛaŋgarg
few: yaga daruwa
fight: bunamiri
fight: bunaramiri
fight: bunaramĭri
finger: ɟälg giri
finger: gɔŋ
finger: gɔŋ
finger: gɔŋ
finger: lugu
finger: lugu
fire: buyuga
fire: ʔbuyuga
fire: guɹ̣d̪a
fire: guṛd̪a
fire: guṛd̪a
fire: ŋuɹ̣a
fish: gwiya
fish: gwiːya
fish: gwiːya
fly (n.): gadiŋali
fly (n.): gadiŋali
fly (n.): wurulul
fly (n.): wurulul
fly (n.): wurulul
fly (n.): wurulul
fly (v.): budd̪un
fly (v.): budd̪un
fly (v.): budd̪un
fog: gaːrain
fog: gaːrain
fog: gaːṛain
foot: ɟälggiri
foot: lugu
foot: lugu
forehead: bugu
forehead: bugu
forest: waiiri
forest: yirbi
forest: yirbi
full: daŋaŋ
full: daŋaŋ
full: daŋaŋd̪iri
full: galgaṇ
full: galgaṇ
full: galgaṇ
girl: guruḷg
girl: wirguḷ
girl: wirguḷ
girl: wirguḷ
girl: yud̪u
girl: yud̪u dawal
give: gadd̪uḷo
give: guruban
give: wiːgama
good: mäinmag
good: ŋamaguli
good: ŋamaguli
grass: mulmi
grass: mulmu
grass: mulmu
green: miḷgumin
green: miḷgumin
green: milgunin
hair: mara
hair: märuwad
hair: märuwad
hand: gɔŋ
hand: gɔŋ
hand: gɔŋ
head: lia
head: lia
head: lia
head: lia
head: mulguɹ̣
head: muḷgur
hear: ŋama
hear: -ŋama
hear: ŋaːma
hear: ŋaːma
hear: ŋaːma
hear: ŋaːme
heart: ḍɔːḍɔrg
heart: ḍɔːḍɔrg
heart: ḍɔːḍɔrg
heavy: durbala
heavy: durbala
heavy: ŋunuŋ
he/she: ŋaii
he/she: ŋaii
he/she: ŋaii
hit: wudd̪un
hit: wudd̪un
hit: wudd̪un
hold: gadd̪an
hold: muḷgga
hold: ŋaiad̪ama
hole: dawaraŋ
hole: dawaraŋ
hole: daːwaraŋ
house: bala\
house: bala\
hunt: miṇguma
hunt: miṇguma
hunt: miṇgume
husband: daramo
husband: diramo
husband: duɛ
I: ŋara
I: ŋara
I: ŋara
I: ŋara
I: ŋara
I: ŋara
kangaroo: mulbia
kangaroo: mulbia
kangaroo: mulbia
kangaroo: mulbia
kangaroo: wiːḍi
kangaroo: wiːḍi
kill: wudd̪un
kill: wudd̪un
kill: wudd̪un
knee: bun\gumu
knee: bun\gumu
knee: bun\gumu
knee: nɛːbaḷ
know: margi
know: marŋgi
know: maṛŋgi
lake: gulun
lake: gulun
lake: niwaṛ
laugh: gidgidd̪un
laugh: gidgidd̪un
laugh: gidgidd̪un
leaf: män\ɟɛr
leaf: man\ɟɛr
leaf: wuruŋan
left: ɟɛraŋgai\no
left: ɲurul
left: wɛn\go
leg: baːgu
leg: bälwag
leg: wambal
leg: waːṛ
lie: yagur
lie: yagur
lie: yagur
lightning: ɟäḷgar\yun
lightning: ɟäḷgar\yun
lightning: miḷŋd̪un
lip: barwain d̪urwara
lip: d̪a
lip: d̪a
liver: birila
liver: ŋäldɟiri
liver: ŋaldɟiri
liver: ŋaldɟiri
live: walŋa
live: walŋa
live: walŋa
long: bamand\
long: bamand\
long: bamand\
long: lambiri
long: wiːyin
long: wiːyin
louse: miṇḍilŋ
louse: minin\bar
many: däruwa
many: därwa
many: guḷgu
man: yʊlŋo
man: yolŋo
man: yolŋo
man: yulŋo
man: yulŋo
man: yulŋu
meat: ŋanag
meat: ŋanag
meat: ŋanag
meat: ŋanag
meat: ŋanag
meat: ŋanag
moon: ŋaḷindi
moon: ŋaḷindi
moon: ŋaḷindi
moon: ŋaḷindi
moon: wirmu
moon: wirmu
morning: magarmunamiri
morning: magarmunamiri
morning: magarmuramiri
morning: munagumiri
morning: munawumiri
morning: munáwumiri
mosquito: banamu
mosquito: boroiɟ
mosquito: buːruɟ
mosquito: gan̪amu
mosquito: guɲamaiṇ
mosquito: miḷgmiḷg
mother: ŋaːndi
mother: ŋaṇḍi
mother: ŋaṇḍi
mountain: bugu
mountain: bugu
mountain: waḍaba
mountain: waḍaba
mountain: wumbaru
mountain: wumbaru
mouth: d̪a
mouth: d̪a
mouth: d̪a
mouth: d̪a
mouth: d̪a
mouth: d̪a
name: yago
name: yago
name: yago
nape: gạba
nape: guba
nape: guba
navel: giṇiŋgar
navel: giṇiŋgar
navel: giṇiŋgar
near: gäḷgi
near: gäḷgi
near: gaḷgi
neck: guba
neck: guba
neck: guba
new: yụḍa
new: yuḍa
new: yuḍa
not: yaga
not: yaga
not: yagu
old: gargaraŋ
old: gargaraŋ
old: murŋaram
old: wuruŋu
old: wuruŋu
old: wuruŋu
one: waŋgain
one: waŋgain
one: waŋgain
other: wiṛibu
other: wiṛibu
other: wiṛibu
person: yudŋu
person: yulŋo
person: yulŋu
play: bul\yun
play: maːḷaŋ
play: ŋaluwa\yun
rain: waldɟän
rain: waldɟän
rain: waṇbana
rat: ɲigɲig
rat: ɟiɲu
rat: marawada
red: migumiri
red: migumiri
red: migumiri
right: dunubaŋo
right: dunubaŋu
right: dunubaŋu
ripe: bɔṛum
ripe: bɔṛum
ripe: bɔṛum
river: baṇḍain
river: baṇḍain
river: baṇḍain
river: maiyaŋ baṇḍain
river: maiyaŋ baṇḍainɟin
river: mayaŋ baṇḍain
road: d̪ugar
road: gaiɟal
road: gaiɟäl
root: dulburu
root: gurga
root: magar
rope: ṛägi
rope: ṛawala
rope: walägwi
rotten: barbamiri
rotten: barba\miri
rotten: barba\miri
round: dagalguṛiṛi
round: dagalwuṛiṛi
round: dagalwuṛiṛi
rub: rurguyun
rub: ruruwuyun
rub: ruruwuyun
sand: munad̪a
sand: munad̪a
sand: ṛaŋi
say: waŋa
say: waŋa
say: waŋa
scratch: ṛaɟuṛaɟun
scratch: \ɟun
scratch: wiṛin
scratch: wurin\ɟun
sea: damuṛuŋ
sea: doːgo
sea: dōgo
sea: doːgo
sea: doːwo
sea: dɔːwo
seed: maŋuɟi
seed: muḷgur
seed: murgu gaːyu
see: nama
see: naːma
see: naːma
sharp: ɟinbuḷg
sharp: ɟinbuḷg
short: dumbul
short: guṛiri
short: guṛiṛi
shoulder: lambar
shoulder: lambar
shoulder: lambar
sing: baṛg
sing: baṛgbaṛgd̪un
sing: daṛ\daṛ\yun
sing: d̪un
sister: yäbba
sister: yäbba
sister: yäbba
sister: yäbba
sister: yäbba
sister: yäbbe
sit: nina
sit: nina
sit: nina
skin: ɟäḷgdun
skin: ɟälgd̪un
skin: baruwan ɟälgd̪un
skin: galŋa
skin: galŋa
skin: galŋa
sky: gunduṛu
sleep: ŋura
sleep: ŋura
sleep: yugura
small: gawan
small: ɲumoːgunin
small: ɲumɔgunin
smell: numan
smell: waŋgi\yun
smoke: diliwur
smoke: diliwur
smoke: d̪iliwur
smoke: d̪iliwur
smoke: ŋarali
smoke: ŋäräli
smooth: buyubuyu
smooth: buyuwoyo
smooth: buyu wuyu
snake: ɟäḷgi
snake: baːbi
snake: yäḷgi
son: gaːd̪u
son: gad̪u
son: gäd̪u daramo
son: waḷguṛ
stand: dara
stand: daːra
stand: daːra
star: baḍɟu
star: gaɲu
star: larban
star: larban
star: larban
star: yurbɔn
stone: baːd̪u
stone: baːd̪u
stone: bumbaro
stone: bumbaro
stone: guṇḍa
stone: wad̪aba
straight: dunuba
straight: dunuba
straight: dunuba
suck: d̪imdun̪
suck: dimd̪un
suck: dimd̪un
sun: walʊ
sun: walo
sun: walo
sun: walu
sun: waːlu
sun: waːlu
sweet: gugu
sweet: wuŋai
sweet: wuŋai
swim: waid̪un
swim: waid̪un
swim: waid̪un
tail: bälwag
tail: bälwäg
tail: ṛabaṛi
take: ɟau\un
take: manaŋa
take: manaŋa
take: manaŋi
take: marama
take: marama
there: ŋunili
there: ŋunili
there: ŋunili
they two: manda
they two: manda
they two: manda
they: walala
they: walala
they: walala
thigh: magar
thigh: magar
thigh: yuḍuŋgur
thigh: yuḍuŋgur
think: gwiaŋa
think: gwiaŋa
think: gwiaŋi
thin: maragunara
thin: wiri\yuna
thou: niː
thou: niː
thou: niː
thou: numa
thou: nuraluru
thou: nuraluru
three: lɔrgun
three: lurgun
three: lurgun
throat: maiyaŋ
throat: maiyaŋ
throat: maiyaŋ
throw: ŋurgama
throw: ŋurgama
throw: ŋurguma
thunder: muryun
thunder: muryun
thunder: muryun
today: gad̪ura
today: gad̪ura
today: gad̪ura
tomorrow: boŋgoŋo
tomorrow: boŋguŋu
tomorrow: buŋguŋu
tongue: mad̪a
tongue: mad̪a
tongue: mad̪a
tongue: mad̪a
tongue: ŋaːnar
tongue: ŋaːnar
tooth: lira
tooth: lira
tooth: lira
tree: d̪äṛba
tree: gaːyu
tree: gaːyu
turn: bilmarama
turn: bil marama
turn: bilyun
turn: dawa\yun
turn: ŋanɟala\yun
two: buläl
two: buläl
two: marma
vomit: gagdun
vomit: gagd̪un
vomit: gagd̪un
walk: maiɟmaiɟun
walk: marɟi
walk: marɟi
walk: marɟi
walk: waṇḍiri
walk: waṇḍiri
walk: waṇḍiri
walk: waŋgam
walk: waŋgama
wallaby: mulbia
wallaby: mulbia
wallaby: wiːḍi
warm: ṛawagd̪iri
warm: rawagd̪iri
warm: rawagd̪iri
wash: lubd̪un
wash: lubd̪un
wash: lubd̪un
wash: lubd̪un
wash: lubd̪un
wash: lubd̪un
water: gabu
water: gabu
water: gabu
water: gabu
water: guɟaɹ̣g
water: guɟäṛg
water: maŋuɟi gabu
water: maŋuɟi gabu
water: maŋuɟi gabu
weep: ŋadi
weep: ŋad̪i
weep: ŋad̪i
we (excl.): naburu
we (excl.): ŋanaburu
we (excl.): ŋanaburu
we (incl.): limuru
we (incl.): ŋilimuru
we (incl.): ŋilimuru
we two (excl.): ŋiliɲu
we two (excl.): ŋiliɲu
we two (excl.): ŋiliɲu
we two (incl.): ŋali
we two (incl.): ŋali
we two (incl.): ŋali
what: na? naldɟan
what: na? naldɟan?
what: ŋa? ŋaldɟan?
when: nad̪a
when: nad̪a
when: nad̪a
where: wana
where: wana
where: wana?
white: gaiwaraŋu
white: wad̪ar
white: wad̪ar
who: yol
who: yol?
who: yol?
wife: galɛ
wife: miäḷg
wife: miäḷg
wind: bawud̪u
wind: ŋanda
wind: wad̪a
wind: wad̪a
wind: waːŋi
wing: binbar
wing: binbar
wing: waːṇa
woman: daigaːwuru
woman: daigaːwuru
woman: mialg
woman: mialg
woman: miäḷg
woman: miäḷg
woman: miäḷg
woman: miäḷg
woman: miäḷg
wood: buyuga
wood: guṛd̪a
wood: guṛd̪a
wood: ṛamṛam
wood: ṛamṛam
wood: ṛawag
woomera: balada
woomera: biṛgu
woomera: biṛgu
yellow: garar
yellow: garar
yellow: gundiɾimiri
yes: ŋɛː
yes: yo
yes: yoː
you two: numa
you two: numa
you two: numa
