arm: -ghumbunggür
arm: -ɣumbuŋgʉr
arrow: indəpa
arrow: iniəpa
arrow: witigipa
ashes: aighipa
ashes: aiɣipa
ashes: yapumba
ashes: yapumba
back: -maranggenamba
back: -maraŋgɛnamba
back: -mukiking
back: -mukikiŋ
bad: apu-
bad: apu-
belly: kwanangamba
belly: kwanaŋamba
belly: -tawuka
belly: -tawuka
big: aru
big: aru-
big: wot-
big: wot-
bird: onggarëpa
bird: oŋgarʌpa
bite: -kungg-
bite: -kuŋg-
black: ayig-
black: ayig-
black: w¬gi
black: wügi
blood: nanggungumbang
blood: naŋguŋumbaŋ
blow: tuguwër-
blow: tuguwʌr
bone: -ɣawamba
bone: -ghawamba
boy: mandung kura
boy: manduŋ kura
breast: ëmëmbang
breast: ʌmʌmbaŋ
brother: -rëmga
brother: -rʌmga
brother: -timga
brother: -timga
burn: gïr-
burn: gɨr-
butterfly: apapura
butterfly: apapura
calf: -gundungump
calf: -gunduŋump
cassowary: matungumba
chest: -gəkunʌmba
chest: -gïkunëmba
child: mumung(ga)
child: mumuŋ(ga)
chin: -mukïgindïnamba
chin: -mukɨŋgindənamba
cloud: waragʉnamp
cloud: waragünamp
cold: gurund-
cold: gurund-
come: monda-
come: monda-
come: wi-
come: wi-
crocodile: matəkʉpaŋ
crocodile: matïküpang
cut: tavüg-
cut: taːwog-
cut: tëg-
cut: tʌg-
dance: tüngirim tugü-
day: gündir
day: mirapa
day: ɣʉndir
die: nʉmb-
die: nümb-
dig: mam-
dig: mam-
dig: tam-
dig: tam-
dirty: wugitia
dirty: wugitia
dog: murukngamba
dog: murukŋamba
dry: guru-
dry: guru-
ear: -ghundïgiwïpë
earth: ghïpa
earth: ɣɨpa
ear: -ɣundəgiwəpʌ
eat: n-
eat: n-
eat: namngg-
egg: mukngangga
egg: mukŋaŋga
elbow: -dumpa
elbow: -dumpa
emu: matuŋumba
excrement: -topa
eye: -nggumurkwa
eye: -ŋgumurkwa
face: tambuŋgənamba
face: tambunggïnamba
fall: gʉmbʌr- puruw-
fall: gümbër- puruw-
fall: tëg-
far: akik
far: akik
father: -ßiŋgina
father: uiß
father: -vinggina
father: yiv
fat (n.): gatəpa
fat (n.): ghatepa
fear: wawaghut-
fear: wawaɣut-
fear: wugitʉm-
fear: wugitüm-
few: owang
few: owaŋ
fight: tʉgim-
finger: dambumba
finger: dambumba
fingernail: pëka
fingernail: pʌka
fingernail: wopa
fingernail: wopa
fire: obutïpa
fire: obutɨpa
fish: wanggipa
fish: waŋgipa
fly (n.): wughundïpang
fly (n.): wuɣundəpaŋ
fly (v.): bʉm-
fly (v.): büm-
fog: nunggungamba
fog: nuŋguŋamba
forehead: tambunggïnamba
forest: wëray
forest: wʌray
fruit: munukwa
fruit: munukwa
full: tuki-
full: tuki-
full: wëtïgh-
full: wʌtɨɣ-
give: -kw-
give: -kw-
good: awi-
good: awi-
grass: wandamba
guts: -tawuka
guts: -tawuka
hair: -numpa
hair: -numpa
head: ikïpa
head: -nʉmbuŋguna
head: -nümbungguna
hear: -gandër-
hear: -gandʌr-
heart: ngimenupa
heart: ŋimenupa
heavy: witi-
heavy: witi-
here: andi
here: yigor
here: yigorr
he/she: nʉ
he/she: nʉ
he/she: nʉ-g
he/she: nʉ-g
he/she: nʉ-kak
he/she: nʉ-kak
he/she: nü-
he/she: nü-
he/she: nü-ng
hit: tügim
hit: tügim
hold: utur-
hold: utur-
house: munggupa
house: muŋgupa
how: ambughambughe
in: uyop
I: ya-
I: ya-
I: ya-g
I: ya-kak
I: yi
I: yi
kill: -gaw-
kill: -gaw-
knee: -mbatʉmp
knee: -mbatümpa
laugh: irmʉ-
laugh: irmü-
left: amëpring
left: amʌpriŋ
leg: -inggrï-pa
leg: -iŋgrɨ-pa
lightning: manand-
lightning: manand-
liver: -mamengamba
liver: -mamɛŋamba
long: watangga
long: wataŋga
louse: nʉmamba
louse: nümamba
man: kurʌ
man: kurë
man: mundu
man: mundu
man: munduka
man: munduka
many: aruk-
many: aruk-
meat: muruka
meat: muruka
meat: urpa
meat: urpa
moon: tëkungumba
moon: tʌkuŋumba
morning: ißɨta
morning: ivïta
morning: ußəɣia
morning: uvïghia
mosquito: tawughupa
mother: -amgina
mother: -amgina
mountain: mɨgɨŋamba
mountain: mïgïngamba
mountain: trəkʌkʌ
mountain: trïkëkë
mouth: -giaghumbangga
mouth: -giaɣʉmbaŋga
name: -numbi- pang
name: -numbi-paŋ
nape: -ituməka
nape: -itumïka
navel: -tundəwup
navel: -tundïwup
near: nunggum
near: nuŋgum
neck: opetumepang
neck: opɛtumɛpaŋ
new: utu-
new: utu-
night: yißi tia
night: yivi-tia
nose: -tukwërpë
not: nima bratia
not: nima bratia
old: nët
old: nʌt
old: nunu-
old: nunu-
one: mindaka
one: mindaka
pull: tʉbʉŋg-
pull: tübüngg-
push: tʉmb-
push: tümb-
rain: trëpa
rain: trrʌpa
rat: təkɔːpa
rat: tïko:pa
red: nanggu-
red: naŋgu-
right: andəpriŋ
right: andïpring
ripe: mungu-
ripe: muŋu-
road: gumbupa
road: gumbupa
root: gundəpa
root: gundïpa
rope: wandaŋga
salt: unungamba
salt: unuŋamba
sand: munatïkupa
sand: munatɨkupa
say: anggand-
say: aŋgand-
say: -gituar-
say: -gituar-
scratch: ër-
scratch: ʌr-
sea: to:gngamba
sea: toːgŋamba
see: igraram-
see: -kir-
see: -kir-
sharp: ika
sharp: ika
sharp: pand-
short: wuru-
short: wuru-
shoulder: -mëranggopa
shoulder: -mʌraŋgopa
sing: gundugund tugu-
sister: -mokët
sister: -mokʌt
sit: mʉndr-
sit: mündr-
skin: -wʉtʌmbʌ
skin: -wütëmbë
sky: igumbïtaka
sky: igumbɨtaka
sleep: gʉn
sleep: gün
small: wiwi-
small: wiwi-
smell: ganduwap ndar-
smoke: gunuŋamba
smoke: umungamba
snake: wandrïngamba
snake: wandrɨŋamba
spit: -ɣawʌpʌŋ
spit: -ghawëpëng
spit: mʉnʉp tu
split: uwand-
split: uwand-
stand: mundatig-
stand: tanggwaram-
stand: taŋgwaram-
stand: wandatïg-
star: indïngamba
star: indɨŋamba
stick: tïkingga
stone: tanggïngamba
stone: taŋgɨŋamba
straight: tuware-
straight: tuware-
sun: inëpa
sun: inʌpa
swell: gam-
tail: awatupang
tail: awatupaŋ
tail: uŋʉnamba
tail: ungünamba
take: nʉp-
take: nüp-
that: ikëk
that: ikʌk
there: akur
there: akur
there: akußi
there: akuvi
they: nʉ-ŋ
they: nʉ-ŋ-gi
they: nʉ-ŋ-kak
they: nüng
they: nü-ng-
they: nü-ng-
they: nü-nga-
thigh: -tandamba
thigh: -tandamba
think: daram-
think: daram-
this: ium
this: ium
this: yika
this: yika
thou: na
thou: na
thou: na-
thou: na-
thou: na-g
thou: na-kak
thou: na-ŋ
thou: na-ŋ-gi
thou: na-ŋ-kak
throat: anuŋumbumŋamba
throat: anungumgumngamba
throw: mundughu-
throw: munduɣu-
thunder: tugu-
thunder: tugu-
thunder: tumur
thunder: tumur
tie: wanumbar-
tie: wanumbar-
tomorrow: amoy
tomorrow: amoy
tomorrow: anung
tongue: -mir-pa
tongue: -mir-pa
tooth: -gambupëng
tooth: -gambupʌŋ
tree: arïpa
tree: arɨpa
tree: takʌpa
tree: tʉmʌka
tree: tʌːßika
tree: watɨka
turn: utʉtʉg-
turn: utütüg-
two: aigai
two: aigai
vagina: wayi-pang
vagina: way-paŋ
vomit: mʉŋu-
walk: go-
walk: go-
walk: tʉm-
walk: wutanggu-
walk: wutaŋgu-
wallaby: aiwarapa
wallaby: aiwarapa
wallaby: ipapa
wallaby: ipapa
warm: gumbund-
warm: gumbund-
wash: anmb-
wash: anmb-
wash: -pɨgram-
wash: -pïgram-
water: anïngamba
water: an^ŋamba
we: a-ng
we: a-ng-
we: a-ng-
we: a-ŋ
we: a-nga-
we: a-ŋ-gi
we: a-ŋ-kak
weep: yiɣ-
weep: yigh-
wet: mete-
wet: mete-
what: anambap
what: anambap
what: anëmgur
what: anʌmgur
where: mbughuru
where: mbuɣuru
white: ghia-
white: ɣia-
white: iya
white: iya
who: nën
who: nʌn
wind: woatërngamba
wind: woatʌrrŋamba
wing: gambaduŋ
wing: ghambadung
woman: awundə-
woman: awundəka
woman: awundï-
woman: awundïka
wood: tambungga
wood: tambuŋga
wood: təkiŋga
yellow: ungga-
yellow: uŋga-
yes: au
yes: au
yesterday: anung
yesterday: aya
yesterday: aya
yesterday: nʉmʉt
yesterday: nümüt
you: na-ng
you: na-ng-
you: na-ng-
you: na-nga-
