all: belam
all: tamai\imbi
all: tomambi
all: tomambi
and: kumuriagi
ankle: nikotoma
ankle: nikut ~ nikoti
arm: tang
arm: tang
arm: tang
arm: tang
arm: taŋ
arm: taŋ
arm: tranga-patra
arrow: tabor
arrow: tabora
ashes: idera
ashes: i-der(r)a
ashes: ikurul
ashes: i-kurul
ashes: iu-jera
ashes: iu-kruli
ashes: iu-kurula
back: dagarkat
back: dagarkut
back: dog
back: dog
back: dogurakut
back: dogurakut
bad: gagir(akun)
bad: gagir(akun)
bad: gagoro
bad: gagoro
bad: gugalmeange
bark: dirnap
bark: dirnap
bark: nadubul
bark: nadubul
bark: rotoi
bark: rotoi
bark: troia
belly: kam
belly: kam
belly: kam
belly: kom
belly: kom
belly: kom
belly: kom
belly: kom
belly: kom
belly: kom
belly: kom ~ kam
belly: kom-rati-agan
big: gunabo-potra-ng
big: raisida
big: rate
big: rate
big: rate
big: ratekomang
big: rati
big: rati-
bird: keka
bird: pa
bird: pa
bird: pa
bird: papa
bird: papapa
bird: papa(pa)
bird: siba
bite: dangdang
bite: daŋdaŋ
bite: itenil
bite: koze
bite: koze
bite: lenga dadaga
bite: nadaran
bite: ndarau
bite: nodong
bite: nodoŋ
bite: umetaim
bite: umetaim
bitter: koipang
bitter: koipaŋ
black: betebet
black: dabar
black: dabar
black: kuta
black: kuta
black: kutkut
black: kutkut
black: kut-kut
blood: mam
blood: mama
blood: mamu
blood: man
blood: mem
blood: mem
blood: mem ~ mam
blood: teia
bone: kut
bone: kut
bone: kut
bone: kuta
bone: kutra
bone: kutra
bone: qetr
boy: čiči rabu
boy: kasiramu
boy: kasiramu
boy: rugi
boy: rugi
boy: rukasere
boy: sisara-rabo
boy: zezag
branch: dagi
branch: dagi
branch: dagi
branch: dagi
branch: gwin-kapi
branch: pi
branch: rodagi
branch: tarko
breast: ɲam
breast: dala
breast: nam
breast: ngaima
breast: ŋam
breast: ngama
breast: ng(g)am
breast: nono
breast: nono
breast: nono
breast: nunu
breast: nunu-imbusu
breathe: a\amtit
brother: amil-ne-kapa
brother: amil-ne-kapan
brother: amil-ne-kapan
brother: binainen
brother: binainin
brother: bona-gobaigu
brother: maun
brother: močen
brother: mosen
brother: mosen
brother: muina
brother: munyen
burn: natoman
burn: natoman
burn: wenatramana
butterfly: nipurigan
butterfly: nipurigan
butterfly: papapi
butterfly: papapi
butterfly: papapi
butterfly: papapi
butterfly: papelug
calf: mangkopa
calf: mankop
calf: mankopa
calf: mankopkop
calf: mankopkop
calf: midra
cassowary: diram
cassowary: dirom
cassowary: dirom
cassowary: dirum
cassowary: dirum
chest: dor
chest: dor
chest: dor
chest: drala
chest: terateral
chest: tere-teral
child: dedeni
child: kasalramirug
child: kasalrami-rug
child: kasiramu
child: luga
child: luga
child: mapeta
child: rugakad
child: rugukad
child: rukad
child: rukud
chin: tabe
chin: teba
chin: teba
chin: tebe
claw: pasuklip
claw: pasuldip
claw: tirnipu
claw: tumu
cloud: dag
cloud: dag
cloud: dapar
cloud: igura
cloud: kutkut dapar
cloud: (kutkut) daparr
cloud: war
cloud: war
cloud: yedoqel
cold: kakir
cold: kakir
cold: kakur
cold: kakurr
cold: kalkala
come: baiao
come: wia
come: wia
come: wia
crocodile: kadsa
crocodile: kaja
crocodile: kaǯa ~ koǯe
crocodile: kogi
crocodile: kogia
crocodile: koje
crocodile: koǯe
cut: ben
cut: kukut
cut: natrapan
cut: natrapan
dance: inong
dance: yangalu
dark: kut
dark: kut
dark: qobi
daughter: bo-galde
daughter: mankute
daughter: mankute
daughter: munkute
day: aipunan
day: ibud-kang
day: ibudkaŋ
day: ioptuka
day: iowototorop
day: totoie
day: yabada
day: yabada
day: yabada
day: yaba tu kameda
die: čamaldai
die: dusalku
die: ine-me-antrumuga
die: kududa
die: kududa
die: kududar
die: kududar
die: kududar
die: kududar
die: kuduru
die: qadala
dig: aunagan
dig: aunagan
dig: aunagan
dig: aunaganla
dig: kurkur
dig: kurkur
dig: naiperinye
dig: naiperinye
dig: qalqal
dirty: papulkum
dirty: populkom
dirty: populkom
dog: darang
dog: daraŋ
dog: daranga
dog: dirung
dog: dorang
dog: doraŋ
dog: dorong
dog: dorong
drink: ine-debone
drink: ine-debone
drink: ine-noni
drink: ine-noni
drink: ngi-nana
drink: none
drink: none
ear: dala
ear: ika
ear: ika
ear: ika
ear: laandra
ear: lana
ear: ran
ear: ran
ear: ran
ear: ran
ear: rana
ear: ran-pe
earth: bur-bur
earth: iakakele
earth: iekakile
earth: pele
earth: pele
earth: pele
earth: punagi
earth: pungai
earth: qata
earth: qata
earth: tongum
earth: tot
eat: nang-onyan
eat: nangy-enyin
eat: noto
eat: noto
eat: ototo
eat: ototo
eat: uatota
eat: uatota
eat: wata
egg: kap
egg: kap
egg: kop
egg: kop
egg: kopa
egg: kopa
egg: (pa) kapa
egg: pa-kop
elbow: tang-kum
elbow: taŋ-kum
elbow: tankum
elbow: tankum
elbow: tan-kum
elbow: tin-kuma
elbow: tran(gk)-qimbe
emu: diram
emu: dirum
emu: dirum
eye: ikapa
eye: i-kapa
eye: ikaputoi
eye: ikatui
eye: ikop
eye: i-kop
eye: i-kopa
eye: ikop-kum
eye: ikop-kum
eye: ikop-tute
eye: ikop-tute
eye: i-kopu
eye: kalye
eye: kalye
eye: kapukapa
eye: kum
eye: kwom
eye: tupi
eye: yenaptetu
eye: yende-betroia
eye: yi-kop
face: ikap
face: i-kap
face: ingoro
face: ingoro
face: yet
face: yiŋar
face: yingare
face: yingarr
fall: aipuna
fall: aipuna
fall: saŋori
fall: tukanu
far: otali
far: utale
far: utale
far: waipur
far: yendom
father: baba
father: baba
father: baba
father: baba
father: baba
father: iai-ia
fat (n.): gii
fat (n.): gi\i
fat (n.): ɣi
fat (n.): ngi
fat (n.): rati-pota
fear: damae
fear: yar
fear: yarandan
fear: yarandan
fear: yarbagin
fear: yarbagin
fear: yarr
feather: čana
feather: kom
feather: kum
feather: pakum
feather: pakum
feather: pa-kum
feather: pa-kum
feather: (pa-)qam
feather: tamakum
feather: tama-kum
fight: mok
fight: toŋitoŋe
finger: karitola
finger: luput
finger: mag
finger: mag
finger: manda
finger: manda
finger: metakina
finger: mog
finger: mog
finger: mutukini
fingernail: runput
fingernail: runput
fingernail: rure
fingernail: ruru
fingernail: tirnipu
finger: robutu
finger: tarangesa
finger: taringesi
finger: tirnitohi
finger: topea
finger: trang-lepelta
finger: tupi
finger: tupi
finger: tupi
finger: tupi
fire: dumbrel
fire: dumbrel
fire: iu
fire: iu
fire: iu
fire: iu
fire: ui
fire: yu
fire: yu
fish: koluba
fish: kuluba
fish: pudi
fish: pudi
fish: pudi
fish: pudi
fish: qalba
five: duba
five: iuega
five: manda
five: manda
five: motoa
five: tumu
five: tumu
flower: kiapa
flower: popo
flower: popo
flower: pupu
flower: pupu
flower: pupu
flower: ropopo
fly (n.): akuraimi
fly (n.): akuraimi
fly (n.): alako
fly (n.): alko
fly (n.): arko
fly (n.): arko
fly (n.): arko
fly (n.): aruku
fly (n.): aruku
fly (v.): nimprugene
fly (v.): nimprugene
fog: igukaǯere
fog: yeduqid
foot: mak
foot: mak
foot: maka
foot: ni-kule
foot: nimkora
foot: ninga
foot: niŋkoe
foot: ning-kor
foot: niŋkum
foot: ningova
foot: ninkor
foot: ninkor
foot: ninkum
foot: tule
foot: tule
forehead: ieta
forehead: yat
forehead: yat
forehead: yat
forest: bobo
forest: kukul
forest: orong
forest: puluna
forest: walanga
four: kumi-rivi-kumi-rivi
four: kum-kumila
four: kumla-kumle
four: kumle-kumle
four: kum-libi-kum-libi
four: topea
fruit: kopa
fruit: kopa
fruit: kopa
fruit: miung
fruit: ubiam
girl: gitakar
girl: kasarama
girl: katarama
girl: mankute
girl: mankute
girl: mukute
give: anai-iminiba
give: anai iminiga
give: namandaga
give: nomining
give: nominiŋ
give: yuga-be-namingal
good: amöl
good: amul
good: amul
good: amul ~ aməl
good: audi
good: inibida
good: inibida
grass: mokomokopo
grass: mokomokopo
grass: mokomo-kopo
grass: motan
grass: motan
grass: siera
grass: toar
grass: toari
grass: towago
grass: towago
grass: to(w)ar
green: sagada
green: saga-sagada
guts: dadul
guts: dadul
guts: kam
guts: kam
guts: kam
guts: kamo
guts: kamo
guts: kom
guts: kom
guts: kom
guts: kom
hair: (bekwa-)lala
hair: bung-kum
hair: bun-kom
hair: bun-kom
hair: bunkon
hair: bunkum
hair: bunkun
hair: bun-kun
hand: dʰag
hand: ime wabo
hand: taŋ
hand: tang(-kor)
hand: taŋ-kor
hand: taŋ-kor
hand: tangoba
hand: tan-kolo
hand: tan-kula
hand: trang-qab
head: bene-kwet
head: bun
head: buna
head: bun(g)-kut
head: bunkut
head: bunkut
head: bun-kutra
head: kote
head: mul
hear: andarla
hear: dondorimi
hear: dondorimi
hear: nandaran
hear: nandaran
hear: ŋada
hear: nundor
hear: nundor
heart: čičirinam
heart: te-kapa
heart: tikop
heart: ti-kop
heart: tikopa
heavy: manqag
heavy: yeklabudwak
heel: nin(g)-kum
here: geenda
here: geno
here: geno
here: pele
here: pele
he/she: bo
he/she: bo
he/she: bo
he/she: bwainen
he/she: bwai-nen
he/she: obo
he/she: obo
he/she: ubu
he/she: ubudan
he/she: ubu(-dan)
he/she: wobo
hit: gagada
hit: metamer
hit: metamet
hit: mok
hit: moka
hit: moka
hit: mokom
hit: naboan
hit: nobod
hit: peara
hole: gapo-gapoa
hole: igenan
house: ma
house: ma
house: ma
house: ma
house: ma
house: ma
house: mae
hunt: mamoe
husband: gulube
husband: gulube
husband: monde
husband: nggumua
husband: ɲumua
I: ɲa
I: gna
I: gona
I: mbo
I: ngamo
I: ŋamo
I: ngana
I: ngana
I: ŋana
I: ŋana
I: umudan
I: umu-dan
I: una
I: una
jaw: tabe
jaw: teb
jaw: teb
jaw: tebu
kangaroo: kobur
kangaroo: tar
kill: mak
kill: naboda
kill: nabodaː
kill: nobod
knee: katra
knee: putukupi
knee: putukupi
knee: putukupi
knee: tubu
knee: tubu
know: kame
know: kame
know: muarandaŋar
know: umarandangar
know: unakaimidan
laugh: tongoi
laugh: toŋoi
laugh: toŋoi
laugh: tongwe
leaf: lo-tam
leaf: (lu-)pi
leaf: nope
leaf: no-pe
leaf: oropopo
leaf: oro-popo
leaf: pe
leaf: rupi
leaf: rupi
leaf: ru-pi
leaf: ru-rual
leaf: tamu
left: bar
left: barr
left: ber
left: berr
left: torto
left: trat
leg: ngianga
leg: tule
leg: tule
leg: tule
leg: tule
leg: tule
leg: tule
lie: inu
lie: potenage
lie: potenage
lightning: guara
lightning: guara
lightning: gwara
lip: bod
lip: boda
lip: bod(a)
lip: boda(-boda)
lip: borda
lip: buda
lip: umebab
lip: umebab
liver: siba
liver: siba
liver: siba
liver: yoa
liver: yoa
liver: yoa
liver: zebe
live: traama
live: tram
live: tupako-ipiliga
long: gumbatope
long: ikrečaǯag
long: sogaǯamel
long: tupiamul
louse: bunmet
louse: bu.nm.et
louse: kaban
louse: kabana
louse: koban
louse: koban
louse: koban
louse: koban
louse: kobana
louse: tetek
louse: totok
louse: totok
man: la
man: ra
man: rabo
man: rabo
man: rabu
man: rabu
man: rabulo
man: topodivi-rabu
many: laiene
many: tomambi
many: tomambi
many: yuag
meat: mid
meat: mid
meat: mid
meat: mid
meat: seseruwende
meat: seseruwende
moon: kak
moon: kuak
moon: kuka
moon: kuka
moon: kwak
moon: kwar
moon: mutumuturaŋ-qak
moon: qak
moon: qak
moon: qar
moon: tomantoman-amul-qak
morning: bobodanu
morning: kutano
morning: kutano
mosquito: boinja
mosquito: boinǯa
mosquito: bongi
mosquito: bongi
mosquito: bonja
mosquito: bonja
mosquito: bonǯa
mosquito: eangana
mother: iai
mother: iai-ia
mother: maga
mother: yai
mother: yai
mother: yai
mountain: oard
mountain: pad
mountain: pard
mountain: tukume
mountain: tukume
mountain: tukume
mountain: tutu
mountain: tutu
mountain: tutu
mouth: boda(-boda)
mouth: bodo
mouth: bodo
mouth: talam
mouth: talam
mouth: uda
mouth: umetap
mouth: umetap
mouth: umetopo
mouth: umetopo
name: bena
name: bia
name: bin
name: bin(a)
name: bin(a)
navel: kam-bea
navel: ungkum
navel: wankum
navel: woukum
navel: wunkum
navel: wunkum
navel: wunkum
navel: (w)unkum
neck: inkutra
neck: inkutra
neck: kote
neck: kwata
neck: ngama
neck: pak
neck: pak
neck: pak
neck: qata
night: idobu
night: kuta
night: kuta
night: kuta
night: kuteme
night: kuteme
night: qete
night: tirem
night: totoizeme
night: totoizeme
night: totoye
night: yaboda-akonau
nose: ika
nose: ika
nose: mulung
nose: mulung
nose: muru
nose: murung
nose: murung-papulet
nose: wede
not: dunai
not: dunai
old: mada
old: natangat
old: nataŋat
old: nataŋat
old: qede
old: (rabo-)rate
old: rabo-rate
one: tarangesa
one: topudivi
one: tukup-mai
one: tungo
one: tupibidi
one: tupulibi
one: tupulibi
other: do-be-dag
other: to-mam-dag
other: tongo
play: toŋe
play: tongoe
play: toŋoe
pull: garai
pull: inkulo
pull: inukolo
pull: wabidio
rain: igura
rain: igura
rain: igurai-puñin
rain: igurai punyin
rain: iogolo
rain: iugul
rain: iuguli
rain: yugula
rat: iai-ie
rat: ieie
rat: makat
rat: makat
rat: makat
rat: makata
rat: mokasa
red: gul(ta)gulteyu
red: mamam
red: maman
red: mem-mem
red: mem-mem
right: atomparegin
right: tort
right: tort
right: tot
right: tot
right: tratra
ripe: agiwawa
ripe: bumugan
ripe: bumugan
ripe: upuwo
ripe: upuwo
river: anjaman
river: intua
river: peinja
river: peinǯa
river: penj
river: taŋ
river: tangkaipre
river: tangkasire
river: taŋkasire
river: tauwa-bobo
river: toa
river: toa
river: warimogu
river: waritang
road: ibma
road: ingwonga
road: ñango
road: nuingo
road: nuiŋo
road: nungo
road: nuŋo
road: nungu
road: ñungu
root: kopu
root: ouruna
rope: ka(a)b
rope: ka\ab
rope: kab
rope: kab
rope: kabi
rope: kəb
rope: lalata
rope: metamet
rope: pimisire
salt: adabour
salt: droqal
salt: gagora
salt: gagöra
salt: kapiang
sand: chire
sand: cirum
sand: čirum
sand: dardar
sand: dardar
sand: dedigea
sand: dedigea
sand: gate
sand: gate
sand: sulum
say: umule
scratch: gnongo
scratch: kokoro
scratch: kokoro
scratch: kokoru
scratch: ɲoŋo
sea: adabur
sea: bau
sea: bäu
sea: bem
sea: bem
sea: bem-ine
sea: enepanagang
sea: tudai
seed: kapa-biu
seed: kop
seed: kop
seed: paopo
see: iendepaineyaua
see: ikopnoge
see: ikopnoge
see: ikop-noge
see: raboi-ikopinagan
see: raboi-ikopi-nagan
sew: yi
shoulder: mata
shoulder: mata
shoulder: mata
shoulder: mata
shoulder: mata
shoulder: matakut
shoulder: mata-kut
shoulder: matra
shoulder: podai
shoulder: podei
shoulder: poder
shoulder: poder
shoulder: podera
shoulder: poder(a)
sing: iububa
sister: erang
sister: tubidibiton
sister: tubidibiton
sit: adami
sit: adami
sit: ademin
sit: adimina
sit: adimi-na
sit: domina
sit: domi-na
skin: pulkom
skin: toe
skin: toe
skin: toi
skin: toi
skin: tupo
skin: tupo
skin: waland
sky: tuka
sky: utali
sky: utali
sky: utali
sleep: inu
sleep: inu
sleep: inu
sleep: yindu
small: baibo-katra
small: kad
small: kad
small: kasaram
small: kasaram
small: kasaramul
small: katerami
smell: berira
smell: more
smell: moːre
smell: mure
smell: mure
smoke: ikoro
smoke: i-koro
smoke: imo
smoke: imo
smoke: iu-klo
smoke: iu-kolo
smoke: iu-koro
smoke: tenei
snake: dibe
snake: dibe
snake: diben
snake: dibo
snake: goulem
snake: goulemu
snake: gulam
son: galde
son: rug
son: rug
son: rug(i)
spit: boluma
spit: bolumi
spit: burme
spit: burme
spit: kak-sipun
spit: kok
spit: koka
spit: koka
spit: koka
spit: koka-sepal
spit: kok-sipun
spit: kok-sipun
spit: kumie
stand: gogabor
stand: nugabor
stand: tembr
star: paro
star: piro
star: piro
star: piro
star: piro
star: piro
star: qatai
stone: dadar
stone: dadar
stone: dadar
stone: dader
stone: dodoro
stone: dodoro
stone: taimir
sun: iabada
sun: iabada
sun: iabota
sun: iobota
sun: labada
sun: yabada
sun: yabada
sun: yabada
sweet: kuoi-makana
swim: sasa
swim: sasa
swim: sasa
swim: so sa
swim: tutua-aziplan
tail: čere
tail: sere
tail: sere
take: gamae
take: gaumar
take: gomor
take: gomor
take: wotone
take: wotone
that: dadad
that: deben
that: deben
that: deben
that: dibi
that: ogdan
that: ogdan
there: dadad
there: dane
there: dane
there: utali
there: utali
they: bo
they: dedoneng-dan
they: dedoneŋdan
they: obadago
they: ubidag
they: ubi-dag
thigh: bol
thigh: bol
thigh: bora
thigh: bora
thigh: wende
think: badiankopag
think: manukop
think: manukop
think: ngangapo-wangawanga
this: gen
this: gen
this: gen
thou: bane
thou: bane
thou: bea
thou: bena
thou: bibi(dagwe)
thou: bongo
thou: boːŋo
thou: bundu
thou: bungo
thou: buŋu
thou: ubudan
thou: ubu-dan
three: gingi-metakina
three: kumele-tungo
three: kumireriga
three: kumi-reriga
three: kumledega
three: kum-ledega
three: kumlediga
three: kumletoga
throat: enkomtor
throat: enkomtor
throat: nangapa
throat: ngangapo
throat: nunkap
throat: nunkup
thunder: dudula
thunder: dudula
thunder: dudulu
tie: marenjak
tie: marenǯak
tie: marenǯak
tie: pal-pal
today: gaunda
today: jangoi
today: kanabag
today: ǯaŋoi
tomorrow: kanebog
tomorrow: kanebog
tomorrow: yedobag
tomorrow: ǯaŋwi
tongue: dagame
tongue: dagomairi
tongue: dangamai
tongue: dangama-rametral
tongue: dogmar
tongue: dogmar
tongue: dogmar
tongue: dogomaira
tooth: lenge
tooth: moi-ia
tooth: moi-ia
tooth: nggoia
tooth: ngoi
tooth: ngui
tooth: ŋui ~ ɲoia
tooth: uguwoi
tooth: uguwoi
tree: lu
tree: paut
tree: ratira
tree: rati-ro
tree: ro
tree: ro
tree: ro
tree: ro
tree: ro
two: kumaribi
two: kumela
two: kumirivi
two: kumi-rivi
two: kumlibi
two: kum-libi
two: kumule
two: metakina
vomit: moini
vomit: mon
walk: ibi
walk: ibi
walk: ibibiaginin
walk: ibibiaginin
walk: nabo
walk: naib
walk: naib
walk: naibe
walk: naib(e)
walk: naib(iñun)
walk: naibinyun
walk: nuǯisine
walk: putukupi
walk: wuǯiǯi
wallaby: kobur
wallaby: kobur
wallaby: tag
wallaby: tag
wallaby: tal
wallaby: tala
wallaby: tala
wallaby: tau
wallaby: tau
warm: tatarapa
warm: tat(a)rapa
warm: tatrapa
warm: tatrapa
warm: totorop
warm: wamba
wash: naminagan
wash: tatu
water: bemine
water: gobe
water: ine
water: ine
water: ine
water: ine
water: ine-
water: ine-nanema
water: ini
water: ngi
we: binedagwe
we: bi-ne-dagwe
weep: anaginin
weep: anaɲinin
weep: ɲanitar
weep: dalan
weep: nanaita
weep: nanaita
weep: ngandalan
weep: ngane
weep: ngane
weep: ŋane
weep: ŋane
weep: ngendate
weep: nonagane
weep: nonagene
we: gagi maulidag
we: iba(-gulag)
we (incl.): ba
we: ŋami
we two (incl.): buŋuɲa\ainev
we: wobena
we: yibi
what: agdan
what: agdan?
what: aia-aia
what: eandadega painda
what: iakagamalo
where: denda
where: ianen
where: ianen
where: močen
where: mocen?
white: palama-ng
white: para paran
white: para-paran
white: poromporom
white: porom-porom
who: a\ai-imnan
who: aai-imnan?
who: aitrale
wife: gitram
wife: mara
wife: mara
wife: momomala
wife: mura
wife: oumamala
wife: oumomola
wind: auima
wind: bue
wind: bue
wind: bue
wind: bue
wind: komag
wind: wele
wind: wurlem
wing: dramba
wing: kam
wing: kum
wing: nipuruginin
wing: nipuru-ginin
wing: pa-tama
wing: pa-tama
woman: mala
woman: mara
woman: mara
woman: mara
woman: mara
woman: mure
woman: mure
woman: topodivi-mala
wood: dadoi
wood: kut
wood: lu
wood: ro
wood: ro
wood: ro
wrist: gaben
wrist: gabun
year: toŋupeǯe
yellow: sagodag
yellow: sasagad
yellow: sasagad
yellow: sekadag
yellow: seko-dag
yes: ao
yesterday: tetem
yesterday: totom
yesterday: totom
yesterday: ǯaŋoi
you: benae
you: bibi
you: bibi(-dagwe)
you: bina N-da
you: wene
