all: ama
all: ambo
all: etamba
all: ɛyɛy
all: kiki
animal: mbomboy
ankle: yatə miyi ŋgur
arm: haφa
arm: ta:pa
arm: taːpa
arm: taφa
arm: taφa haφa
arm: taφa mbondə
arrow: kwona
arrow: mbɛ minǯa
ashes: hikišɛmbo
ashes: šɛ
back: komakiɲ
back: maŋgər
back: maŋgər
back: mu yɛφa
back: yayi omu
back: yen
bad: kafësek
bad: kafəsek
bad: kaφasɛk
bark: mbi
bark: saφi
belly: kumbu
belly: mbə
belly: mpë
belly: mpə
belly: suŋgu
belly: suŋgu
big: haraφa
big: hisaw
big: rekə
bird: apu
bird: ap(w)u
bird: aφo
bite: čɛ
bite: puk a
bitter: kwo a
bitter: ow
bitter: φu hatawa
black: këhapa
black: kəhapa
black: kɛyiha(φa)
blood: kɛφi φi
blood: pi
blood: pi
blow: gwoφi
blow: φəna
bone: aφo haφa
bone: hapa
bone: hapa
branch: taφa
breast: muk
breast: muk
breast: muku
breathe: hɛŋgaha
breathe: φoφoy
brother: kumwoy
brother: kumwoy
brother: mendala
brother: mɛndaya
brother: yaka
burn: hayi
burn: suwu
burn: tuku
butterfly: aφosəmbəruka
calf: haφa omu
calf: yatə maŋgər
cheek: wanɛŋgɛy
cheek: wangəsər
chest: bərəφə
chest: ßɛruk
child: yi
child: yigapa
child: yigapa
child: yikafa
chin: tekimbi
claw: mbe minǯa
cloud: aφonduwan keyi
cloud: hɛnǯaŋgwayaφ
cloud: wayi kɛyi
cold: hiŋgahaw
cold: nekərəya
come: heči ya
come: nawiya
come: ya
come: ya
come: ya
count: kandə
count: kɛɲi
crocodile: mo
cut: sakiya
cut: tay
cut: təmə
cut: yə
cut: yə
cut: φo
dark: kɛyiha(φa)
dark: niyiki yi
daughter: mima yikaφwa
day: a yandə nɛdə
day: hoŋgo
day: yadə
die: ha
die: ha ma
die: uku a ha
dig: či
dig: əßə
dig: yɛyi
dirty: kɛyiha
dog: asʌ
dog: asa
dog: asë
drink: uka a
dry: reki
dry: samba
dust: haφasɛn
dust: rɛŋgə
ear: fu:
ear: fuː
ear: mambiya
earth: mu
earth: nosap
earth: nosap
earth: nowosaφ
eat: a
eat: a
eat: a(g)
eat: otə a
egg: mbɛy
egg: mpei
egg: mpei
elbow: tombo
emu: aφošɛmbu
emu: warəwanuku
eye: mi:
eye: miː
eye: miyi
eye: miyi monǯə nɛmbə
eye: miyi monǯə nɛmbə
eye: miyi noku φifi
eye: miyi saφi
eye: ŋgwandəmay
face: misoma
fall: saka
far: yaφa
father: afëje
father: afəǯe
father: aφočɛy
father: aφoko
father: efi
fat (n.): φəφəta
fear: akə
feather: (aφo) nɛmbə
few: amɛnda
few: karakanda
few: kaw
fight: ow anaφi
finger: haraφa taφama
fingernail: (taφa) bi(š)
finger: (taφa-)ma
finger: yatəma
fire: hi
fire: hi:
fire: hiː
fire: himənǯumu
fish: ɛmiyɛφ
float: ŋgay
flower: (mɛ) šɛ
flow: kiya sor
fly (n.): amaruka
fly (n.): karuka
fly (n.): nənəßar
fly (v.): haŋga
fly (v.): mboko
fog: hɛnǯaŋgwayaφ
foot: yatə
foot: (yatə) woφu
forehead: makambɛ
forest: kwaši
fruit: sək
fruit: sək
full: takəkəsə
full: φuɲi
give: ha
give: ha
give: ha
good: kep
good: kep
good: kɛφi
good: kwoya
grass: wohɛnǯa
green: nekərə
green: sombo
guts: kumbu
guts: suŋgu
hair: asa nɛmbə
hair: mamba nɛmbə
hair: nɛmbə
hair: šembi
hand: taφa
hand: taφa nǯumu
hand: taφa woφu
head: masëk
head: masək
head: masɛk
hear: menǯi
hear: menǯi
heart: mɛsɛk
hear: waŋgətɛy
heavy: nomoya
he/she: rë
he/she: rə
hit: fiyu
hold: neki
hole: wakɛmbi
house: aka(ma)
how: mboyɛŋga
husband: holi
husband: ma
husband: ma
I: an
I: a-n
I: anda
I: andana
I: enǯi
jaw: tekəmbi
kangaroo: yombo
kill: arowa φi
knee: hembiya
knee: ŋgəŋgən
knee: yatə kwiɲiφ
knee: yatə mboŋgo
know: hɛ
lake: namba
lake: wasanamba
laugh: hɛŋga
leaf: kəφəka
leaf: kwiɲ
leaf: mbəka
leaf: suku
left: mu
left: yenǯi
leg: ya:te
leg: yaːte
leg: yatə
lie: wa
lie: yi
lightning: sarɛmbɛya
lightning: yeriφiya
lip: kunǯa saφi
live: moro
liver: woφu
live: sombo
live: ßɛr
live: ta
live: yi
long: howuk sə
long: ŋgworo
long: ŋgworo
louse: nəka
louse: nəka
louse: nëkë
louse: nəkə
man: hole
man: ma
man: ma
man: ma
man: ma
many: haraφa
many: kandəyi
meat: omu
meat: omu
moon: akar sokwa nəwəka
moon: nəkwəya
moon: nowëka
moon: nowəka
moon: tay nəwəka
morning: niyɛŋga
morning: uhandə
mosquito: yekes
mosquito: yogisa
mother: auwi
mother: auwi
mother: awe
mother: nokwaφa
mountain: kwo
mountain: kwow
mountain: kwow
mountain: nɛndə kwow
mountain: təmo
mouth: kunǯa
name: hi
name: hi ha
nape: nenɛndə
narrow: ŋgowiyowu sakər
navel: ayas
navel: nawamba
near: mbana
new: akar
new: handəyɛy
new: mbakambaka
new: mbirimbiri
new: sombo
night: niy
nose: sumonǯə suφu
nose: sumwondj
not: ɛyɛ
not: mbəš
not: saka
not: yaho
old: maši
old: mboɲi
old: səmbɛya
one: φondar
other: akar
other: kanda
person: ma
pull: neki
pull: ŋgwoɲa
push: ndarɛma
push: ndəma
rain: wayi
rain: wayip
rain: wayip
rain: wayi ßa
rat: akaŋgora
red: nai
red: nai
red: nǯuwi
red: səkənow
right: mama (yɛφa)
ripe: neφi
river: karakanda φa
river: kwala
river: φa
road: nombo
root: nenži
root: suŋguyu
rope: manǯə
rope: φoko
rub: rekəkə
rub: φuφoy
salt: woši
sand: kɛsin
say: mba
say: mbo
say: wa
say: wo
scratch: kərə
scratch: wiyar
sea: somakwotə tawa φa
sea: ukumboro
seed: sək
see: he
see: he
see: he
see: hɛ
sew: kaφa
sew: ßa
sharp: suŋguyu
sharp: tɛ
short: amɛnda
short: tombo
short: yenǯi
shoulder: mbiyinǯə
shoulder: təməna
sister: kumwoy
sister: mowe
sister: mowoy
sister: mowoy
sister: yaka
sit: yi
skin: mampë
skin: mampə
skin: saφi yə
skin: φi
sky: nər (keyi)
sleep: wa
small: amɛya
small: waya
smell: kwowa ya
smell: kwoφa ya
smoke: hirika
smoke: rëka
smoke: rəka
snake: hoφo
son: yikaφwa
sour: kwo a
sour: φu hatawa
spit: nǯərən
spit: soŋgwiya
spit: ukwašɛ i
split: kaya
split: ndəmbaya
split: φəka
squeeze: hɛkə
stand: sətə
stand: sokwa
star: maway
star: wiɲumay
star: wuɲəmai
star: wunyëmai
stone: hərəŋgwoy ndom
stone: pap
stone: papa
stone: φaφa
straight: kɛφi
straight: naŋgwa
sun: ya
sun: ya
sun: ya
sweet: hemi kwar
swell: wuwu
swell: φəφəta
swim: ukure
tail: kiɲi
take: hiyiya
take: rambo
take: ya
take: ye
that: kana
that: kata
they: ye
they: ye
thick: mbanda
thigh: kwočombo
thigh: ŋgwoyi
thin: kaφa sə
think: hiki
this: ndəna
this: ndəta
this: nǯɛča
this: test again
thorn: yami
thou: kuta
thou: kwona
thou: më
thou: mə
thou: mənawa
thou: məta
thou: niɲa(wa)
thou: ninǯa
throat: mborowaŋgə
throw: rambo
thunder: sarɛmbɛya
tie: hema
tie: hoŋgo
tie: kətə
today: aφa
tomorrow: iyi
tomorrow: sik
tongue: kwunja
tongue: kwunǯa
tongue: tarɛkwoy
tooth: maφo φu
tooth: ŋgaŋga tombo φu
tooth: tarëkwi
tooth: tarəkwi
tooth: φu
tree: me
tree: mɛ
tree: mɛ
tree: mɛ tombo
tree: nawamba
tree: noku tombo
turn: ndarɛmboy
two: uprus
two: uprus
two: uφurus
unripe: sombo
unripe: waya
vagina: ča
vagina: səkəmbor
vomit: woyi
walk: amamba
walk: čiši
walk: i
walk: i
walk: i
warm: hi uwu
warm: hi yami
wash: uku yeči
water: ʊkwu
water: uku
water: uku
water: uku
water: uku səßə wakɛmbi
weep: kɛya
weep: kɛyamuk
we: no
we: no
we: nona
we: nota
we: noti
we: test
wet: ukuka
wet: ukuka
we two (incl.): siɲa
we two (incl.): siča
what: mboy
where: səta
where: šiya
white: afama
white: afama
white: nokunow
who: nama
wide: mbanda
wife: mima
wind: sowa
wind: sowa
wind: sowa
wing: čɛφi
wipe: mbači
woman: mima
woman: mima
woman: mi:ma
woman: miːma
wood: hičaφwa
wood: hi tombo
wood: kumbu
wood: mɛ
wood: mɛ
wood: mɛ
wood: ŋgəsa
wood: yamba
woomera: wondoφ
worm: ŋgwoyimbi
year: sukwiya
yellow: mbondiwa now
yellow: nǯuwi
yes: ayo
yes: owič
yesterday: yer
you: ku-ta
you two: kiɲa
you two: kiča
you two: kinawa
