all: ŋâ(so)
all: sammá(so)
and: yé
animal: bayîm
animal: dábba
animal: kurúdi
ankle: šîm ̌îbe
arm: bibí
arm: bibí čídíyabe
arm: bibí kəlâbe
arm: bibí woloram
arm: músko
arrow: kənyígə
ashes: bú
back: káwu
back: kóšé
back: kuluwerám
back: ŋáwo
back: ŋáwo
back: šíla ŋáwobe
bad: díwi
bad: kúttu
bark: kaskaší
because: nanka
belly: súró
belly: timbí
belly: timbí
big: kúra
bird: ŋúdo
bite: gərə́kin
bite: nánárŋin
bite: nándəkin
bite: sənándin
bite: zərəgîn
bitter: čîm
bitter: kúttu
black: sə́lə́m
blood: bû
blow: φuŋîn
bone: šíla
boy: táda
branch: yaktə́ram
breast: tə́gam
breast: tə́gam
breast: tûlo
breathe: yinŋîn
breathe: yinté
brother: kərámi
brother: kərámi kwâŋâ
brother: yâana
brother: yaá ~ yayá
burn: gáŋin
burn: sámbin
burn: wárŋin
burn: yámbukin
butterfly: gawagawa
butterfly: máləm φátáφátá
calf: də́ŋəl
calf: šíyél
calf: šíyél
cheek: zəgáli
chest: ŋánǯi
child: dáptala
child: kálawu
child: kústa
child: kútta
child: táda
chin: ŋumí
cloud: φówó
cold: ámusú
cold: kákua
come: ísəkin
correct: kálkál
correct: ŋə́la
count: isamŋîn
count: komŋîn
crocodile: kárám
cut: čiŋálŋin
cut: čoŋolŋîn
cut: kámŋin
cut: sálŋin
cut: súŋgin
cut: záŋin
dark: sələmtə
daughter: φéro
day: kǎusu
day: kâusu dáwu
day: kawú
day: kaǯírí
die: kə́rmu
die: kúttu
die: mówudu
die: núkin
die: núna
dig: láŋin
dig: rəmŋîn
dirty: kadáwua
dog: kə́ri
drink: sâi
drink: yákin
dry: hárŋin
dry: ŋâmdə
dust: bə́rbər
ear: sə́mo
earth: čídí
earth: čídí
earth: kattî
earth: lárdə
earth: sə́dí
eat: búkin
eat: zə́win
egg: káre
egg: kəntə́tə́ná
egg: ŋə́wúl
elbow: nǯúro
emu: kərgégə
eye: fə́rtə šîmbe
eye: kururám
eye: šîm
eye: φortó
face: φə́ska
fall: surîn
fall: yurúkin
far: číntə
father: abbá
father: babá
father: (b)awá
fat (n.): timbí
fear: ríŋin
fear: rita
feather: tíktígə
few: ganá
fight: gádəkin
fight: zəgádin
fingernail: kə́rgámi
fingernail: ráwa(mí)
fingernail: φə́rgámi
finger: ŋulodó bəlân
finger: ŋulondó
finger: ŋulondó
fire: kánnú
fire: kannu˗rám
fire: kə́ri kánnúbe
fire: φúko
fire: φúwo(dí)
fish: bə́nyi
five: úwu
float: kámbéŋin
flower: kambîl
flower: kəmbəlî
flow: kasə́kin
flow: səgašîn
fly (n.): čigə
fly (v.): φarŋîn
fog: bantəgəné
foot: gudugudú
foot: šî
foot: súróšîbe
forehead: ŋûm
forest: karáː sə́lə́m
four: dégə́
freeze: kərŋîn
fruit: nágə
fruit: táda
full: səmbəlîn
full: yimbəlíkin
girl: φéro
give: čîn
give: yíkin
good: ŋə́la
grass: kaǯîm
green: kəlî
guts: kalə̂m
guts: káre súróbe
guts: súró
hair: bə́rámi
hair: kundúli
hair: kundúli φúwube
hair: tə́pši
hand: karádi
hand: kə̂m
hand: músko
hand: súró múskobe
hand: zəmbú
head: kəlâ
hear: faŋîn
hear: faŋîn
heart: karə́gə
heavy: kurwówu
here: nâ ádən
hit: bákčin
hit: báŋgin
hit: báŋgin
hold: róŋin
hold: sə́tai
hold: tákin
hold: warŋin
hole: bəláː
hole: súwúli
horn: kaŋádi
house: nǯîm
house: φáto
how: abígǎinyin
how: ndâ
hunt: baraŋin
husband: kwâ
ice: máφi
jaw: ŋáido
kill: čeǯîn
kill: yezə́kin
knee: bulokbulokmáram
knee: búwo ŋurumŋúrumbe
knee: ŋurumŋúrum
know: noŋîn
lake: kulúwu
lake: kulúwu
lake: nǯî kúra
laugh: kasútu
leaf: kálú
leaf: lámbo
left: woφilá
leg: sî
lie: bə́nŋin
lie: boŋîn
lightning: fərel
lightning: rádə
lightning: wulak
lip: kâ čîbe
live: dəgákin
liver: dádámi
liver: kəmattán
live: rôa
long: dátəa
long: kurúwu
long: kurúwu
louse: kárí
louse: kəŋə́sə
man: bî
man: kâm
man: kôŋâ
man: kwâŋâ
many: kadá
many: ŋə́wu
many: tə́rə́m
meat: dâ
moon: kə́mbal
moon: kə́mbal dəríyáve
moon: kə́mbal kəntágə
morning: súwa
morning: φáǯer
mosquito: kantána
mother: yâ
mountain: kâu
mountain: kərî
mountain: tolî
mouth: čî
name: sû
nape: daŋál
narrow: sársár
narrow: zə́gəsə ́
navel: dawudí
near: karə́ŋən
neck: dáwú
new: bəlîn
new: ganá
night: búné
nose: súwúli kə́nzabe
not: áʔa
not: adabán
not: bâ
not: báwo
old: čári
old: čári
old: kəmúrso
one: fál
one: lásaḱ
one: tiló
other: gadé
person: k˗âm
play: biskéŋin
pull: gərásəŋin
pull: φínŋin
push: təmbálŋin
push: zúŋin
rain: nǯî
rat: ŋárə́ma
rat: ǯilwá
rat: ǯilwá
red: čim̂
red: kimê
right: kəmburám
ripe: baφúna
river: kəmádúwu
road: zuwumí
root: kárí
root: zâr
root: φə́rtə
rope: gərasán
rope: ǯê
rope: ǯê
rotten: mbəsəŋîn
rotten: nǯímŋin
rotten: φatîs
round: korkorgáta
rub: číŋin
salt: mándá
sand: čésa
sand: kattî
say: gulŋîn
say: gulŋîn
say: manaŋîn
say: ŋin
say: šin
scratch: gámbukin
scratch: kárámŋin
scratch: zəgámbin
sea: kazáa nǯîbe
sea: kulúwu
sea: nǯî bə́rəm
seed: kusúnyi
see: rúkin
see: rúkin
see: súrin
see: súrin
see: wúŋin
sew: dutə́kin
sew: ndəraŋɪ̂n
sew: sudutîn
sharp: čónčón
sharp: tímia
sharp: φaáta
short: kaφúwu
short: korí
short: sâm
short: ǯâm
shoulder: kəmbə́látə
shoulder: ŋáwána
sing: kǎiya yéŋin
sister: kərámi
sister: kərámi
sister: yaá
sister: yâana
sit: námŋin
skin: gáŋgin
skin: karáwi
skin: karáwi
skin: kattígə
skin: kattígə
skin: šilŋîn
sky: sámi
sleep: lénŋin
small: ganá
smell: bə́bə́nŋin
smell: yínŋin
smoke: kanǯê
smooth: sə́mə́l
smooth: súlsúl
snake: kádí
snow: máfi
snow: máφi
son: táda
sour: čamčam
spit: nǯúlúlu
spit: sasərâi
spit: tə́léle
spit: yasərákin
split: čeŋîn
split: φálŋin
squeeze: ranŋîn
stand: daŋîn
star: dalabə́lə́mma
star: šílléwu
star: šílléwu ŋawərea
stone: kâu
stone: kâu
straight: sák
suck: súsúnŋin
suck: yimbúkin
sun: kəŋâl
sweet: kəmágən
swell: φúŋin
swim: kámbéŋin
swim: mbáŋin
tail: ŋawəre
take: góŋiin
take: ndalŋîn
take: zaləmŋîn
that: túdu
that: túnyi
there: nâ túdun
thick: gaǯak
thick: gədədəp
thick: tə́wər
thigh: dúnó
thin: hargáta
think: təmaŋîn
thin: tə́néne
thin: φelele
this: ádə
this: ányi
thorn: kalgî
three: yakkə́
three: yaskə́
throat: maləmrám
throat: ŋuwoltó
throw: gəmŋîn
throw: tándəkin
tie: nə́mŋin
tie: wíŋin
tie: ǯérəkin
today: kû
tomorrow: báli
tomorrow: waǯíya
tongue: tə́lam
tooth: čamléléram
tooth: kúrwú
tooth: šéli
tooth: šéli kəmówunbe
tooth: tími
tooth: tími
tree: kəská
tree: ŋə́dəm
turn: káláŋgin
turn: kórkórŋin
two: indí
vagina: bə́mbəm
vagina: kalân
vagina: kamurám
vagina: kəšiyanarám
vagina: φárgi
vagina: φerorám
vomit: káláŋgin
vomit: zoruŋîn
vomit: φíŋin
walk: kasə́kin
walk: leŋîn
walk: leŋîn
warm: kánnúa
warm: kǎusu
warm: kǎusua
warm: zəmzəm
wash: túlŋin
water: báram
water: nǯî
weep: čírin
weep: šímálo
weep: yírəkin
wet: kəlî
wet: kəlímbər
what: abí
what: ˗bí
when: sa(m)bí
where: ndâ
where: ndárá
white: bûl
who: ndú
wide: φárák
wife: kámú
wind: kârwa
wind: kasâm
wing: φéφéto
wipe: činŋin
with: ˗alan
with: ˗n
woman: kámú
woman: kəšiyána
woman: kurkúri
wood: áar
wood: danál
wood: də́gəm
wood: kâ
wood: kəgə́ši
wood: kəská
wood: rerenó
worm: ku̪li
year: kə́rwu
year: saá
yellow: kərnágə
yellow: kúrwum
yes: aâ
yesterday: bíska
