all: munda
all: munda
all: pala pala
all: pra pra
and: kaukl
and: kaukñ
arm: oŋo
arm: oŋoie
arrow: kimbiri
arrow: ye
arrow: yere
arrow: yere
arrow: yere(-kimbre)
ashes: iŋum
ashes: iŋum
ashes: yegum
ashes: yegum
ashes: yunggum
ashes: yuŋgum
back: mogo
back: mogo-na
back: mogo-na
back: moku
back: moku
back: mumbie
bad: kinde
bad: kinde
bad: kinde
bad: kinde
bad: kinde
bad: kindi
bark: endi ganggi
bark: endi gaŋgi
belly: debilomgo
belly: dembiglko
belly: deno
belly: deno
belly: goŋau-mo
big: kande
big: kande
big: kande
big: kande
big: kande
big: kande
big: ponde
big: pondo
bird: koa
bird: kua
bird: kua
bird: kua
bird: kua
bird: kua
bird: kua
bird: nima
bite: kal-
bite: kale-
bite: sunggua
bite: suŋgua
black: kama
black: kama
black: kama
black: kama
black: kama
black: ka:ma
black: kaːma
blood: bolomai
blood: boromai
blood: boromai
blood: boromai
blood: borɔmai
blood: borumai
blood: mayam
blood: mayam
blow: pundusunggua
blow: pundusuŋgua
bone: yambiro
bone: yambiro
bone: yombei
bone: yombugl
bone: yombugl
bone: yombuglo
bone: yombura
bone: yombu-ra
bone: yómbu-ra
boy: gage
boy: gale
boy: kumugl
boy: kumukl
boy: kumukñ
boy: kumuluː
branch: indowe
branch: yoŋagle
breast: ame-
breast: amena
breast: amu
breast: amu-na
breast: amu-na
breast: amu-na
breast: amuno
breast: amu-no
brother: ánggera
brother: aŋgera
brother: anggira
brother: aŋgira
brother: anggra
brother: aŋigle
brother: aŋile
burn: do-
burn: donu-
burn: gaklh.kwa
burn: gakñkwa
burn: gaxka
burn: gaxka
butterfly: kuime kaime
butterfly: kuime kaime
butterfly: kuime kaime
butterfly: kume kaime
butterfly: kwimekaime
butterfly: kwimekaime
calf: kagl paragle yombuglo
calf: kale palatie yombei
cassowary: ni:me
cheek: pauna
cheek: pauna
child: yagn gage
child: yagn gage
claw: winagle
claw: winagñe
cloud: kamen koa
cloud: kamen koa
cloud: kamkua
cloud: kamkua
cold: bi
cold: bi
cold: ir
cold: ir
cold: iri nggoxkwa
cold: iri ŋgoxkwa
come: onggua
come: oŋgua
come: u-
come: uŋua
come: uono-
cut: bo-
cut: bo-xka
cut: keglu
cut: kegñu
dance: aiken
dark: mim
dark: mim
daughter: ambuglo
daughter: ombuei
day: andesuŋgua
day: ene
day: eŋe
day: engge
day: eŋge
die: goklh.kua
die: gol-
die: golu-
die: goñkua
dirty: bi
dirty: bi
dog: a
dog: agi
dog: agl
dog: agl
dog: agl
dog: aklh
dog: akñ
dog: al
dog: atn
drink: neunggua
drink: neuŋgua
drink: nigl neiŋga
drink: nigl neingga (ø
drink: nigl no-
drink: nu nono-
dry: gigle nalu-
dry: gile nendu-
dry: kugandunggua
dry: kuganduŋgua
ear: kina
ear: kinabe
ear: kina-na
ear: kina-na
ear: kina-(na)
ear: kunano
ear: kuna-no
earth: magan
earth: magan
earth: magan
earth: magan
earth: magan
earth: magan
earth: makan
earth: moglombo
earth: mokumbo
eat: nei-
eat: neinga
eat: nei-ngga
eat: neunggua
eat: neuŋgua
eat: no-
eat: nono-
egg: (koa) muglo
egg: muglo
egg: mugño
egg: (nima) muglo
egg: nuglo
emu: nime
emu: nime
emu: nime
emu: niːme
eye: gumutino
eye: gumutino
eye: onggomutna
eye: oŋgomutna
eye: oŋolome
eye: oŋomit-na
eye: oŋomuglo
face: gimai
face: guma
face: gumana
face: gúmana
far: elige
far: elke
father: nem
father: nem
father: nina
father: nina
father: nino
father: nino
fat (n.): vamm
fat (n.): wam
fat (n.): wam
fat (n.): wam
fat (n.): wam
fear: kandin golu-
fear: kondukl.nggokl
fear: kondukñŋgokñ
fear: kundugl gol-
fear: kundugl pirika
fear: kundugl pirika
fear: kundux pirika
feather: iŋgo
feather: ingo
feather: (koa) iŋo
feather: (nima) enie
finger: Monggo
finger: moŋgo
fingernail: gire
fingernail: gire
finger: oŋoie moŋo
finger: oŋo moŋo
fire: baugl
fire: dongga
fire: doŋga
fire: ende
fire: ende ndonggwa
fire: ende ndoŋgwa
fire: indi
fire: iŋumule
fire: iŋumulu
fish: bagle
fish: bagñe
fish: buglo bagle
fish: buglo bagle
flower: kuie
flower: kuie
flower: tara kuie
flower: tara kuie
fly (n.): diun
fly (n.): diune
fly (n.): diune
fly (n.): goŋgomba
fly (n.): indi
fly (v.): endonggua
fly (v.): endoŋgua
foot: kagl
foot: kagl beye
foot: kagl sura
foot: kale
foot: kale bei
foot: kalie
foot: kalie suo
foot: katino
foot: kati-no
foot: kat-na
foot: kat-na
forehead: bile mambe
forehead: bire mambuglo
forest: endile
forest: endile
forest: indopan
four: suo suo
four: suo wa suo
four: tue wa tuwa
fruit: amukñ
fruit: monggo
fruit: moŋgo
fruit: moŋo
fruit: moŋo
full: kausunggua
full: kausuŋgua
full: kaw
full: kaw
girl: ambai
girl: ambai
girl: ambai
girl: ambai
girl: amunga
give: teingga
give: teiŋga
give: teunggua
give: teuŋgua
give: to-
give: tono-
good: wagai
good: wagai
good: wagai
good: wagai
good: wagai
good: wagai
grass: kugl
grass: kukl
grass: kukñ
grass: kulu
green: kama
green: kama
green: molunandeŋua
green: morunduŋwa
green: murundu
green: murundu
guts: de kaie
guts: dem kane
guts: dena
guts: dena
hair: (bile) enie
hair: (bire) iŋo
hair: inggu-no
hair: iŋguno
hair: yungo
hair: yun.go
hair: yuŋo
hand: onggo-na
hand: oŋgo-na
hand: onggu-no
hand: oŋguno
hand: oŋo
hand: oŋoie
hand: oŋu-na
head: bile
head: bire
head: biti-no
head: bit-na
head: bit-na
head: bit-na
head: bɪtɪno
hear: pilu-
hear: pirika
hear: piríka
hear: pru-
hear: pru-kua
hear: purukua
hear: purukua
heart: kilu moŋo
heart: kilu po mol-
heart: munduno
heart: munduno
heart: siŋe po molu-
heavy: yobugñare
here: edla
here: mala
here: mala
he/she: ye
he/she: ye
he/she: ye
he/she: ye
he/she: yewe
he/she: yile
hit: bol-
hit: bolu-
hit: sunggua
hit: suŋgua
hole: maugl
hole: maukl
hole: maukñ
hole: mogu
house: inggukl
house: iŋgukñ
house: iŋu
house: iŋu
house: iŋu
house: yungu
house: yun.gu
husband: kiye
husband: wie
husband: wiye
husband: wiye
husband: wuie
I: na
I: na
I: na
I: na
I: na
in: bangge
kangaroo: kambu bagime
kangaroo: noga balime
kill: singgokl.kua
kill: sɪŋgokñkua
knee: gogino
knee: gogi-no
knee: kagl golko
knee: kale golumge
know: na piríka
know: pilu-
know: pirika
know: pru-
know: purukua
know: purukua
laugh: gaugl eru-
laugh: owe denu-
leaf: yage
leaf: yaundo
leaf: yaundo
leaf: yaundo
leaf: yaundo
leaf: yaundo
leaf: yowe
leg: kagl
leg: kale
leg: kalie
leg: kati
leg: kati
leg: kat-na
lie: paiingga
lie: pai\iŋga
lie: ukl paiunggua
lie: ukñ paiuŋgua
lightning: kamen tai
lightning: kamu ta
live: koro moxka
live: koro moxka
live: mol-
live: molu-
liver: goŋau-mo
liver: mundu kama
liver: munduo kama
liver: munggo
liver: muŋgo
long: kande
long: kande
long: ol.lh.to
long: olto
long: olto
long: olto
long: olto
long: olto
long: olundo
louse: niman
louse: niman
louse: níman
louse: nime
louse: numan
louse: numan
louse: tolendi
louse: tolssi
man: yagl
man: yagl
man: yagl
man: yagl
man: yagl
man: yakl
man: yakñ
many: mere
many: mere
man: yomba
man: yomba
meat: mie
meat: mie
meat: mie
meat: minde
meat: miya
meat: miya
moon: ba
moon: ba
moon: ba
moon: ba
moon: ba
moon: mba
morning: taŋenma mogl
morning: taŋenma mol
morning: tanggima kana
morning: taŋgima kana
mosquito: oruglo
mosquito: orulo
mother: mam
mother: mam
mother: mam
mother: mana
mother: mana
mountain: (magan) muglo
mountain: magan mugño
mountain: muglo
mountain: mulo
mouth: dilai
mouth: dira
mouth: dira-na
mouth: dira-na
mouth: dira-ne
mouth: dirano
mouth: dira-no
name: kaŋgin
name: kanggi-n(a)
name: kaŋgi-na
name: kaŋi-ne
near: mambi
near: manggigle
near: maŋgitòe
near: maŋigl
neck: nuguno
neck: nugu-no
new: erime
new: erime
new: kolo
new: koro
night: ande benggwa
night: ande beŋgwa
night: anduweri
night: anduweri
night: endeweri
night: endeweri
night: mim denu-
night: mim eru-
nose: guma(-no)
not: taman
not: tman
old: kindagl
old: kindagl
old: kindagl
old: kindakl
old: kindale
old: mambuno
old: mambuno
one: sildao
one: suara
one: suara
one: suara
one: ta
one: tsuara
person: tege
person: tege
person: yomba
person: yomba
rain: kamen sunggwa
rain: kamen suŋgwa
rain: kamen suŋua
rain: kamun
rain: kamun
rat: dua
rat: dua
rat: dua
rat: dua
rat: dua
rat: inau
rat: inau
red: bale
red: bogl
red: gogl
red: gogl
red: gogl
red: gogl
red: gokl
red: gokñ
road: konbo
road: konmbo
road: konobo
road: konumbo
road: kon(um)bo
road: kon(um)bo
root: dombe
root: duglo
root: duglo
root: dugl(u)o
root: dugñuo
rope: ka:n
rope: kaːn
rope: kun
rope: kun
rope: yaga
rope: yerewam
rope: yiruane
round: memgo
round: memgo
round: menggu
round: meŋgu
salt: kowo
salt: mundi
sand: ogupu
sand: ogupu
say: dinu-
say: dinu-
say: du-
say: du-
say: kandi
say: kandi
say: kate-unggua
say: kateuŋgua
say: ndi-ngga
say: ndi-ŋga
seed: amukl
seed: moŋo
seed: moŋo
seed: munggo
seed: muŋgo
see: kan-
see: kan-ingga
see: kaniŋga
see: kanu-
see: kanu-
see: kanunggua
see: kanuŋgua
sharp: mugo no-
sharp: mulo nono-
short: sumbuie
short: suŋunagl
sister: ambara
sister: ámbara
sister: ambauglo
sister: ambaulo
sister: ambirino
sister: ambiri-no
sit: amendingga
sit: amendiŋga
sit: mokl.kua
sit: mokñkua
skin: gaŋe
skin: ganggi-no
skin: gaŋgino
skin: gaŋie
skin: nanggie
skin: naŋgie
skin: naŋie
sky: kamen
sky: kamen
sky: kamu
sky: kamun
sleep: uglh paiunggua
sleep: ugñ paiuŋgua
small: kembele
small: kembera
small: kembera
small: kembere
small: kembere
small: kembre
small: kemgere
small: uru
small: uru
smell: kumbuno
smell: kumuno
smoke: ende inge
smoke: (ende) ingge
smoke: iŋge
smoke: iŋu dinbi
smoke: iŋu dinenbi
smooth: windan denu-
smooth: windan du-
snake: togi
snake: togoi
snake: togoi
snake: tog(o)i
snake: toki
snake: tomoi
snow: aragl moŋo
snow: aral moŋo
snow: ninbugl
snow: numbulu
son: gaŋe
son: wam
spit: nu su-
spit: su sunu-
split: ekiri
split: ekiri
stand: andiklh.kua
stand: andikñkua
stand: andixka
star: ku:gl
star: kuːgl
star: kuːgl
star: kuːgl kuri
star: kukl
star: kukñ
star: kulu
star: kulu kole
stone: kobuglo
stone: kombuglo
stone: kombuglo
stone: kombuglo
stone: kombuglo
stone: kombugño
stone: kombulo
stone: kombulo
stone: komubulu
stone: komubulu
straight: dimende
straight: dimendi
sun: ande
sun: ande
sun: ande
sun: ande
sun: ande
sun: ande
sun: ande-sunggua
swim: atineonggua
swim: atineoŋgua
tail: yagle
tail: yagle
tail: yagñe
tail: yande
take: inu-
take: iu-
that: i
that: inda
that: inda
there: igl
there: iro
there: suglo
there: sugño
they two: ye
they two: ye čuo
they: ye
they: ye
they: ye
thick: ponde
thick: pondo
thigh: bigie
thigh: bimie
this: i
this: i
this: i
this: i
this: i
thou: ene
thou: ene
thou: ene
thou: ene
thou: ene
thou: ene
thou: ni
three: suata
three: suo ta
three: tsuo ta
three: tue wa tawa
throat: nuŋu-na
thunder: kamen guru
thunder: kamu gulu
today: ereme
today: erime
today: erime
today: erime
today: kendi
tomorrow: barma
tomorrow: taŋenma
tomorrow: taŋenma
tomorrow: tonggima
tomorrow: toŋgima
tongue: dilambe
tongue: dirambena
tongue: dirámbe-na
tongue: dirambie
tongue: dirambino
tongue: dirambi-no
tooth: siŋe
tooth: singgu-no
tooth: siŋguno
tooth: siŋie
tooth: tsiŋga-na
tooth: tsinggi-na
tree: ende
tree: ende
tree: ende
tree: endi
tree: endi
tree: endi
tree: inde
turn: wage denu-
turn: wagu-
two: suo
two: suo
two: suo
two: tsuo
two: tue
vagina: sumbuno
vagina: sumbuno
walk: kombounggua
walk: konbouŋgua
walk: onggua
walk: oŋgua
walk: po
walk: po
walk: po!
walk: wani-ngga
wallaby: kambu
wallaby: kambu
warm: piraglendi
warm: piragñendi
wash: nikl pani
wash: nikñ pani
water: nigl
water: nigl
water: nigl
water: nigl
water: nikl
water: nikñ
water: nu
weep: agleindingga
weep: agleindiŋga
weep: kai eru-
weep: kaierukua
weep: kaierukua
weep: kimbi denu-
weep: on.gumuglo nuglo
weep: ongumuglo nuglo
we: no
we: no
we: no
we: nono
we: nono
wet: kutunggua
wet: kutuŋgua
we two (incl.): no
we two (incl.): no čuo
what: nali
what: siragl
what: sirakl
what: sirakñ
what: tsiragl
what: tsirágl
when: aunake
when: aunake
where: aglo
white: kiruo
white: kiruo
white: kruo
white: kruwo
white: kruwo
white: kuluo
who: indaowa
who: ira
who: ira
who: ira
who: ira
wife: embena
wife: embena
wife: embie
wife: embie
wind: goli
wind: ire
wind: iri
wind: iri
woman: ambai
woman: ambai
woman: ambu
woman: ambu
woman: ambu
woman: ambu
woman: ambu
woman: ambu
wood: buglo
wood: buluman
wood: edi
yellow: dindunggua
yellow: dinduŋgua
yellow: kilen
yellow: kilien
yes: oʔo
yes: oʔo
yesterday: ediwe
yesterday: elemandi
yesterday: endere
yesterday: endewende
you two: ene
you two: ene čuo
