all: dummorom
all: tònteghe
all: tontɛxɛ
ankle: mop kumbögh
ankle: mop kumböx
arm: bukur
arm: bùkur
arm: endjöwòn
arm: ɛnǯöwon
arrow: wöxɛ
ashes: imud
ashes: imùd
back: urigh
back: urigh tögh
back: urix
back: urix töx
bad: eruburtu
bad: ɛruburtu
bark: tu par
bark: tu par
belly: put
belly: put
big: namar
big: nangar
big: nemùr
big: neŋgör
big: nenggör
bird: kondjì
bird: konǯi
bite: mekaraw-
bite: mekaraw-
bite: zil
bitter: siar
bitter: sìar
black: sortògh
black: sortox
blood: iri
blood: irì
bone: itögh
bone: itöx
boy: nam monokor
boy: nam monokor
branch: to-kange
branch: tu-kangk
branch: tu kaŋk
breast: apwügh
breast: apwügh mömögh
breast: apwüx-mömöx
breast: opwüx
breathe: id gaz-
breathe: id gaz-
brother: agha
brother: agha-nègh
brother: axa
brother: axanɛx
burn: domu
burn: -domu-
butterfly: buri-baŋgam
calf: inabögh
calf: inöböx
calf: itögh
calf: itöx
cassowary: kài
cheek: ghambòl
cheek: xambɔl
chest: keghèn
chest: kɛxɛn
child: enyi
child: hurbombo
child: nin
chin: amutè
chin: amutɛ
cloud: yegi
cold: yɛpwi
cold: yepwì
come: terer-
come: terer-
correct: tiwor
crocodile: karamo
crocodile: kàramo
cut: fàgha-
cut: ngoyareb
dance: sadé
dark: kabwar
dark: kuber
dark: kubèr
daughter: ɛnyi itöm
daughter: enyi itöm
day: fèra-fèra
day: wòte-zawe
day: wòte-zàwe
day: wotɛzawɛ
die: mborowi-
die: mborowi-
die: nam mborow
die: nam mborow
die: yew-
dig: ho
dig: ta
dig: ta-
dog: ipwi
dog: ipwì
drink: mainak
drink: nuku-
drink: nuku-
drink: sakodere
dry: ghwarào
dry: maimbasuré
dry: xwarao
ear: ipar
ear: ìper
ear: ipɛr
earth: mbam
earth: puwwe
earth: sa
earth: sire
earth: tumor
earth: tumor
earth: tùmor
earth: tumòr
ear: undji
eat: noku
eat: nuku-
eat: nuku-
egg: yausil
egg: yaùsil
elbow: ismbun
elbow: ismbun
elbow: izimbun
elbow: ton
emu: kai
excrement: ar
excrement: ar taw-
eye: muri-nam
eye: musigh-nam
eye: musigh-sin
eye: musix-nam
eye: musix-par
eye: musix-sin
eye: mus-kumbögh-sin
eye: mus-kumböx-sin
face: ayemor
face: šamol
face: shamòl
fall: fàgha-
fall: nabënë
far: cholwo
far: tamalwai
far: tumorwal
far: tumorwal
father: imb
father: imb
fat (n.): mer
fat (n.): mɛr
fear: to(-to)
feather: chin
feather: sin
feather: sin
finger: anggu nenggèr
finger: aŋgu nɛŋgɛr
finger: anggu tarapòr
finger: ghwagh natum
finger: kangk
finger: kaŋk
finger: kwaite
fingernail: muŋgu
fingernail: munggù
finger: xwax natum
fire: wad
fire: wad
fire: wad domu-
fish: yangj
fish: yangk
fish: yaŋk
five: ghupanumör
flower: anggin
flower: aŋgin
fly (n.): sìnogho
fly (n.): sinoho
fly (n.): sinoxo
fly (v.): gawdetere
fly (v.): meghutubna-
fly (v.): mexutubna-
foot: kang(k)
foot: kaŋk un
foot: kauk
forehead: eidow
forehead: éydòw
forehead: eǯow
forest: totow
forest: totòw
four: arögh
four: aröx
fruit: šɛt
fruit: shet
full: köwɛ
girl: mburumbur
girl: yet-monokor
girl: yɛt monokor
give: dey-
give: déy-
give: uwe
good: simor-angib
good: tiwor
good: tiwor
grass: ghu
guts: ko-p(o)ri
guts: kopri
guts: kopri
hair: gu-sin
hair: koshin
hair: sin
hair: sin
hair: xu-sin
hand: bukur
hand: bukur
hand: ghwagh
hand: kwal
hand: xwax
head: untrom
head: wondrum
head: wondrùm
head: wondrum itogh
hear: mbedewel
heart: idumo
heart: šɛt
heart: shet
hear: züw
hear: züw
heavy: zakoi
heavy: zakwe
heavy: zàkwe
heel: kangk un
he/she: aanggìb
he/she: anggam
he/she: aŋgib
he/she: ɛwɛy
he/she: -i
hit: idowo
hit: irow
hit: iröw-
hit: kuy
hole: maraw
house: vokörà
house: wokera
house: woköra
house: wokörà
husband: nèt
husband: ombo
husband: umb
husband: umb
I: mo
I: nɛy
I: nu
I: nu
I: -u
kangaroo: nar
kill: yɛw-
kill: yow
knee: yoghomögh
knee: yohomo
knee: yoxomöx
know: purte
know: zöf tu ko
know: zöf tu ko
lake: zomb
laugh: mešir u-
laugh: mesyir u-
laugh: necheru
leaf: èpur
leaf: ɛpur
leaf: to-pur
leg: kangk
leg: kaŋk
lie: ghöröghna-
lie: taine
lie: xoröxna-
lightning: wàndjir
lightning: wanǯir
lightning: wonjhir
lip: auru-par
lip: auru-par
lip: ruppar
live: mɛšɛrna-
live: mesyerna-
liver: idumu
liver: ìdumu
long: ghaif
long: ghew
long: xaif
louse: am
louse: am
louse: itere(k)
man: idub
man: nam
man: nam
man: nam
man: nam
man: omb
many: ndomrom
many: ndomrom
meat: zuru
meat: zürügh
meat: zürügh
meat: zürüx
moon: irinche
moon: irìndj
moon: irinǯ
morning: imbu-kaxab
mosquito: yol
mosquito: yol
mother: ap
mother: ap
mountain: tumor ieatör
mountain: tumor iéàtör
mountain: tumor-yéatör
mouth: ghatawòn
mouth: xatawɔn
name: ur
name: ur
nape: mbaku
nape: mbaku
navel: undjer
navel: unǯɛr
near: awontarapor
near: awon-tarapor
near: wontab
neck: dömön
neck: dömön
new: eringgib
new: ɛriŋgib
new: monokor
new: mònokor
new: ringib
night: eldzhen
night: kubèr
night: kubɛr
night: yohodom
nose: mene
nose: menögh
nose: menögh maràw
nose: menöx maraw
old: kàgha
old: porönga
old: poröŋa
old: poröŋa
old: poröngà
old: yɛwib
old: yewon
one: te
one: tɛ
one: temta
person: nam
person: nam
person: omb
play: ud-
push: jhupiserowo
rain: mun
rain: mun
rat: ghömör
rat: noghór
rat: noxor
rat: yɛwri
rat: yewrì
red: warta
red: wàrtögh
red: wartögi
ripe: muni
ripe: muni
river: ariki
river: ɛriki
river: erikì
road: maraw
root: dödör
root: dödör
root: to-drudr
rope: mar
rope: mar
sand: sir
sand: sir
sand: yondinche
say: döm-
say: döm-
say: dum
say: zagh-
say: zax-
sea: yama
see: pegher-
see: pexer-
sew: ze-
sharp: menesir
sharp: menesìr
short: ghàdkembere
short: hadkambere
short: xadkɛmbɛrɛ
shoulder: mirim
shoulder: mirim
shoulder: urob
sing: ragu
sing: šadɛy-
sing: shadey-
sister: agha-nègh
sister: apob
sister: apob
sister: axanɛx
sit: imšɛb-
sit: ims(h)eb-
skin: depar
skin: par
skin: par
sky: ngalaw
sky: yɛgi
sky: yegì
sleep: namume
sleep: tay-
sleep: tay-
small: sesjen
small: tarapor
small: tarapòr
small: thaborom
smell: murun tɛxɛ ko
smell: murun-zöw
smoke: unowur
smoke: unowur
snake: kanyumbe
snake: kɛnimbo
snake: kenìmbo
son: enyi maram
son: ɛnyi maram
sour: siar
sour: sìar
spit: mitào
spit: mitào tubi-
spit: mitaw
spit: xu kaw-
split: šawmow-
split: šawn-
stand: iperèd-
stand: ipɛrɛd-
stand: ndiye
stand: zetjerèd-
star: mbaram
star: mberèm
star: mbɛrɛm
stick: ghé
stick: kamb
stone: mate
stone: metè
stone: mɛtɛ
straight: ponmor
straight: ponmor
suck: apwügh mwe nukmow-
suck: apwügh mwe nuku-
suck: apwüx mwe-nuku
suck: imüx-
sun: dzowa
sun: zawa
sun: zawà
sun: zowa
sweet: me
sweet: ndzhem
swim: nggushebeyna-
swim: papow
tail: pi
tail: pi
tail: pi
take: daraw
take: daxana-
take: dazhana
take: ghweti
take: nareiro
take: wagh u-
take: wax u-
take: woy
they: -a
they: anemrè
they: anɛmrɛ
they: anɛmrɛy
they: tonta
thick: mùghtenè
thick: muxutɛnɛ
thigh: gharewögh
thigh: xarɛwöx
thin: früfür
thin: früfür
think: mɛnif damöndö
think: menif dàmöndö
think: minif (
thin: kowdar
think: thought-accompany
thorn: tu mopèngk
thorn: tu mopɛŋk
thou: -im
thou: imwɛy
thou: iwɛy
thou: yo
thou: yu
thou: yu
thou: yum
three: inis
three: inìs
throat: kerèndjeram
throat: kerèndjeram
throat: kɛrɛnǯɛram
throw: sarewo
throw: sjeruw
thunder: gigi
thunder: gìgi
thunder: matterë
tie: kumbu
tie: kumbu
tie: kumbu-
tie: kumbu-
today: wotey
tomorrow: imbu
tomorrow: ìmbu
tongue: dupen
tongue: dupɛn
tongue: duppan
tooth: zid
tooth: zigh
tooth: zil
tooth: zix
tree: to
tree: tu
tree: tu
tree: zuroghod
two: kumb
two: kumb
unripe: kob
unripe: kob
vagina: men
vagina: men
vomit: mɛmori u-
walk: mondorwotey-
walk: mondorwotey-
walk: yato
wallaby: nar
warm: umo
warm: wom
warm: wom
wash: ar
wash: mai-zoradju
wash: mwe-yungguna
wash: mwe yuŋguna-
wash: mwezax-
water: moi
water: mwe
water: mwɛ
weep: banb u-
weep: mambu
weep: mombögh
weep: momböx
weep: namb u-
we: nom
we: num
we: num
we: numwɛy
we: -om
wet: maitanab
wet: poŋgɛnɛ
wet: punggene
white: purubur
white: puru-bur
white: pùru-bur
wide: paxan
wife: awomb
wife: et
wife: ɛt
wind: zuru
wind: zuru
wing: teghè
wing: tɛxɛ
woman: idöb
woman: idöb
woman: idub
woman: yet
woman: yɛt
wood: tu
wood: tu
wood: waw
wood: waw
yesterday: wambi
yesterday: yoghoy
yesterday: yoghòy
yesterday: yowé
you: -om
you: ya-mu
you: yu-m
