all: tsawora pai
animal: nditsi ŋge
arm: ngang
arm: ŋaŋ
arm: ŋaoŋ
arm: ŋatsamonop
arrow: taniwar ika
ashes: apón
ashes: apon on
back: morap iŋge
bad: lapa
bad: lápa
bad: lepetse
bark: tsil aŋ
belly: mbuk
belly: mbuk iŋge
belly: ndeŋgoat oŋ
big: ngaimbára
bird: nakúr
bird: nakur ɛ
bite: kamotaliŋak tsɛt
bite: kamotal tsɛt
bite: kɛkɛtea tsɛt
bitter: kumbutaka ine
black: mbot ika
black: ŋgoat ine
black: ngóat
blood: mat
blood: mat ika
blow: ururu tsɛt
bone: irun mbe
boy: korun
boy: me:rkurun
boy: mɛːr-kurun mbe
branch: tsapaːla iŋ
breast: nim
breast: nim an
breathe: ɛmeka
breathe: kapem ika
brother: akunameː oŋga
brother: akuwɛ akuwoŋga
burn: kar
burn: op-iran
burn: pak tsɛt
butterfly: mamatambur aŋ
calf: tsambuken oaŋ
cheek: mbomboŋ gere
chest: kair iŋge
chin: kapitaur iŋge
cloud: oal iwe
cold: tumurua tsɛt (get)
come: kare
correct: taraŋ tarataraŋ
count: kupup
crocodile: tsamór
crocodile: tsamor ika
cut: kinat
dark: indukalopok ine
day: ɛm boŋ
day: mboŋ
day: tamaːr iŋge
die: ken
dig: kamulak tsɛt
dig: kuŋgum mbat
dirty: lumulumat ine
dog: á:ur
dog: dur ɛ
dry: karapok ine
dust: iŋge
dust: oap o
ear: mak
ear: mak a
earth: keték
earth: kɛtɛk iŋge
earth: kɛtɛk iŋge
eat: kat
eat: kat
egg: tserem mbo
egg: ül
egg: ül uŋge
elbow: ŋaumbir iŋge
eye: ta:r
eye: taːr ɛ
eye: tar ŋararap o
eye: tartsuap
face: okom iŋge
fall: ndupainde
fall: -sari
far: otak
father: ata uŋga
father: ngatá
father: ŋata ika
fat (n.): oeak oŋ
fear: kaŋgaːr
feather: mbunembune aŋ
feather: nakur ɛ
feather: okul
few: mbutukun
few: mbutuːn
finger: kambol ɛ
finger: kambol ɛ
finger: kambol kawatsak a
fingernail: ndoap o
fingernail: tsimaŋgɛːr an
finger: tamumur iŋge
fire: ndumbuŋ gere
fire: ngait
fire: ŋaːit
fish: tsir
fish: tsir ika
five: ŋaŋ take
flow: nal tsɛt
fly (n.): nggaur
fly (n.): ŋgaur
fog: oa ka
foot: mɛlek a
foot: tambule iŋge
foot: tamtakil
foot: tamtakil an
foot: tsámbo
forehead: ŋgulan ika
forest: manimbir ika
four: tsaipe-tsaipe
freeze: ŋdupunaŋga ine
fruit: ilu ŋge
full: ɛr mbo-ndurumbat
full: ndup
girl: kɛat-kurum mbe
give: mbiep
good: taráng
good: taraŋ tarataraŋ
grass: koaːr iwe
green: malakoa tse
guts: ora iŋ
hair: irap o
hair: kumén
hair: kumen iŋge
hair: yuːŋ gere
hand: ŋaŋ
hand: ngang(-dambi)
hand: ŋaŋdambi aŋ
hand: puputul iŋge
head: nggándu
head: ŋgandu ore
heart: kair iŋge
heart: mik a
hear: -tsu:
hear: tsuː
heavy: ipaka ine
here: moːn(la)
he/she: ik
he/she: mik/ik/ngik
he/she: ning
he/she: niŋ
he/she: uk
he/she: uk
hit: mbat
hit: ŋgur mbat
hold: tsop-iŋoia
hole: ɛːn iŋge
house: nggoko
house: tsíngger
house: tsiŋger iwe
I: e:k
I: ɛːk
kill: mbat
knee: kut iŋge
knee: kut up
know: tokaŋak tsɛt
lake: tsairum mbe
laugh: kiram
leaf: mbaŋa o
left: ŋatsi
leg: tamtakil
leg: tsambo
leg: tsámbo
lie: kuor-tsa
lightning: tirun ga
lip: kakutsil aŋ
liver: kupun mbe
long: anggám
long: aŋgam ine
louse: aŋgumbir a
man: inámbo
man: mer
man: mɛːr oŋga
many: tsawora
meat: ili ka
moon: yu:
moon: yuː ka
morning: akunua ŋge
mosquito: malaŋet ika
mosquito: ngget
mosquito: ŋget oŋ
mother: me:m
mother: mɛːm on
mountain: ipun iwe
mountain: naŋam iŋge
mountain: naŋam iŋge
mountain: ngangám
mouth: olakam
mouth: olákam
name: inu
name: inu ore
nape: murikitsar ika
narrow: ndit ine
navel: mbutsutsurum ika
near: ŋalea
neck: aŋgirip ika
new: ndup iŋge
new: tsimɛr ɛ
night: indu ŋge
night: tamaːr iŋge
nose: tsimbér
old: iŋgom ine
old: mbarat ine
one: takuːa
other: taka
other: tekere
other: tɛne
person: inambo
person: ortsa
play: araia tsikene
pull: kumat
push: paroroŋak tsikene
rain: mbu
rain: mbuː ore
rat: tsadzak a
red: purapura
red: pura-púra
right: ona onaora
ripe: kumbambaŋ ine
river: tsu kaŋan
river: tsuː ŋga
river: tsuː ŋga
road: kurí
road: kuriː aiŋ
root: ndundur aŋ
rope: lapɛka ŋge
rotten: kɛlɛk ine
salt: tsair i
sand: kindan oŋ
say: mbaké
say: mben
say: mbeː-tsɛt
scratch: ratsik tsɛt
scratch: tsapatsapak tsɛt
sea: tsair i
sea: tsáirum
sea: tsairum mbe
seed: ilu ŋge
see: mbat
see: tsaik
sew: ɛmɛt tsɛt
sew: kalaun mbup
sharp: amokamoka ine
short: put
short: put ine
shoulder: tsombi
shoulder: tsombi aŋ
sing: tsína-tsína tset
sing: tsinatsina tsɛt
sister: akunameː ki
sister: akuwa mbo
sit: tsa mo tsa
sit: tsa-mótsa
skin: mouk
skin: mouk mbat
skin: tsil aŋ
sky: ŋaitukun mbe
sleep: kuaːr
small: muta
small: mutar ɛ
smell: oar iwe
smoke: ngait iap
smoke: ŋaitiap iŋge
smooth: maumao ine
snake: kain
snake: kain mbe
son: akuaro umbe
sour: maŋiŋ ine
spit: nduŋ ga
spit: nduŋgul
split: ndaŋgar
split: ndaŋgarep
stand: kup tsa-
stand: kup-tsa
star: akunuaŋgu
star: nggoitúku
star: ŋgoituku ka
star: Xyoidzamo
stone: ikúpul
stone: ikupul ɛ
straight: konakonak ine
sun: tsaut
sun: tsaut ika
swell: kakai tsɛt
swim: ŋalaŋala tsɛt
tail: ndik
tail: tsimbaiŋge
take: naŋguria tsɛt
take: -nggurati
take: urot
there: moːn(la)
they: mbok
they: miŋ
they: ming/mbok
they two: mak ~ wak
they two: mak/wak
thick: paraŋ
thick: paraparaŋ
thick: patsana
thigh: kuŋilik a
think: mamaŋ tsɛt
thin: tsidzirit ine
thorn: pupuk a
thou: tse:k
thou: tsɛːk
thou: up ~ up
three: tsaipe-takua
throat: nanemokar iŋge
throw: ndipit
throw: ŋgir tsɛt
thunder: kɛm ika
tie: oaŋgit
tie: otsat
today: taumbotuku
today: taumbotúku
tomorrow: imbúnum
tongue: menep
tongue: menɛp ika
tooth: arɛː
tooth: er
tooth: ɛːr
tooth: ɛːrɛː
tree: iriput ŋge
tree: ka
tree: up iŋge
tree: u:t
tree: uːt
turn: tataliak tset
two: tsaipe
unripe: malakoa
vagina: iir
vagina: iːr aŋ
vagina: mamatala ka
walk: kɛka
walk: keka/angé
walk: mai tsɛt
warm: mbulambulaŋ ine
warm: mbulambulaŋ ine
warm: ŋgaraŋgara ine
wash: ndarep
wash: ndarikene
water: tsu:
water: tsuː
weep: ndang
weep: tsamin a
we (excl.): ip
we: i-m
we (incl.): im
wet: mutsumutsuk ine
wet: mutsumutsuk ine
we two (incl.): ip
we two: i-p
white: kea-kéak
white: kɛakɛak ine
who: kana
wife: akunambo noŋ
wind: ndup-ndup
wind: ndupundup iŋge
wing: ŋgɛten an
woman: káwatsak
woman: kawatsaka
woman: kɛatsak a
wood: mbim iŋge
wood: ŋaruːm mbe
year: puruk iŋge
yellow: naŋinaŋ ine
yesterday: imánde
you two: up
you two: u-p
you: u-m
you: u-m-
you: u-p-
