all: -an̪imi
all: taikuwapi
and: auŋwanuwoŋa
and: wuɹ̣ari
ankle: mərə-
ankle: muru(ŋ)kulukaɹ̣i
ankle: murupwaka
arm: əpətə-
arm: kuɹ̣umuta
arm: mutə-
arm: muɹ̣tiyaɹ̣iriŋa
arm: talayua
arm: yərəmpita
ashes: pumuti-ŋa
back: kuriwaɹ̣a
back: mumu-
back: mumuta
back: mun̪t̪iŋiɹ̣a
back: nintiŋa
back: t̪ukwataŋa
bad: t̪at̪əɹ̣uwi
bad: t̪iɹ̣iŋa
bad: t̪iɹ̣ti
bark: ələpi-
bark: əŋəpi-
bark: məntau-ŋa
bark: puŋkaɹ̣i-ŋa
because: ŋəni
because: pili
belly: awəri-
belly: man̪t̪aripika
belly: pitapita
belly: pitipitam
belly: wiika
belly: wuɹ̣ara
belly: wuɹ̣ara
big: aɹ̣ikula-
big: yiŋkuɹ̣-
bird: tokwampi-ni
bite: -wawuta
black: tuniwi-
blood: mat̪i(m)pa-ni
blood: yimpuli-
blow: -miliŋari
bone: pwat̪a
boy: kiit̪ini
boy: t̪atiŋaɹ̣ti
branch: ŋə(m)pala
branch: talayua
breast: pulaɹ̣ti
breast: puŋini-
breathe: yimi-ŋa
brother: -uwani
brother: -yuwuni
brother: -yuwupi
burn: t̪urumumi
butterfly: kwaɹ̣ikwai-ŋa
calf: pitipwat̪a
calf: yəranəkaɹ̣a
calf: yimpəratuɹ̣aɣa
calf: yimpətaruɹ̣aɣa
calf: yiŋuwana
calf: (yi)ŋuwana
cheek: yimuŋa
chest: maɹ̣ipə-
chest: pipwa
chest: tawunalua
child: kiɹ̣it̪i-
child: kiɹ̣it̪i-
child: miŋkəla-
chin: piɹ̣namili-
chin: yərənamila
claw: munaɣa
claw: t̪ipita
cloud: yərakuŋa
cold: aniŋə-
cold: yiriwini
come: -kali
come: -nuŋi
come: -uɹ̣i
count: -kəɹ̣it̪əpaya
crocodile: takampuŋa
crocodile: tayu-ni
crocodile: yərə(ŋ)kəpai
cut: -awurini
cut: patiŋirupati
cut: -pukəɹ̣imi
cut: tuɹ̣li
dark: tuniwi-
daughter: -məɹ̣aniŋa
daughter: -mwaɹ̣iŋa
day: umu-ŋa
die: -kuɹ̣a
die: -kuɹ̣a
die: piɹ̣nipani
dig: -kəɹ̣əŋumi
dig: -kit̪ika
dirty: kuwuliŋi-
dirty: mapət̪a-
dog: kətariŋa-
dog: pəlaŋəmwa-
drink: -maŋapa
drink: ŋamuŋami
dry: -pwari
dust: kuwulimi-ni
dust: paruwaɹ̣-ti
ear: mika(n̪)t̪aŋa
ear: pərakuniŋa
ear: puŋitə-
earth: kəluwaɹ̣ti
earth: yakuluwi-ni
eat: -apa
eat: -mulat̪a
eat: ŋamuŋami
egg: kaɹ̣aka
egg: kaɹ̣apari
egg: pat̪ipat̪u
egg: pwat̪a
elbow: yərəmpuŋa
eye: alaŋarika
eye: alaŋurupwoŋa
eye: -kəli-
eye: kəlipəlaya
eye: miŋkika
eye: pit̪aɹ̣a
eye: t̪apaluka
eye: tupura
eye: wumuɹ̣iŋa
face: əŋkəɹ̣i-
face: yərə(ŋ)kəliŋapa
fall: -akupuan̪t̪i
fall: -awuliɣi
fall: pwapuua
far: karampi
father: -riŋa-ni
fat (n.): min̪aɣa
fat (n.): taŋara
fat (n.): yimpwaɹ̣la
fear: -makiri
fear: -waŋa
feather: yilima
feather: yilipuɣa
few: yimpaɹ̣lin̪a
fight: yipurini
fingernail: kəɹ̣umunaɣa
fingernail: milimunaɣa
fire: ki-
fire: yikwa-ni
fish: mipu-ti ~ mupu-ti
five: puŋiniŋita
float: -akit̪iti
flower: takwayiŋaɹ̣i
flower: wuɹ̣it̪iŋa
flower: yilokwa
flow: -maŋimi
fly (n.): upwa-ni
fly (v.): -aŋulimai
fog: kuma
foot: kintaŋa
foot: məlakəntaŋa
foot: məlampwaɹ̣a
foot: məli-
forehead: wuɹ̣ati-
forehead: wuɹ̣ati-ŋa
forest: waɹ̣ta
four: yatapinti
four: yatawuliŋiri
fruit: pin̪t̪awu-ni
fruit: t̪apit̪api-ŋa
fruit: t̪əmənti-ŋa
fruit: turawi-ni
full: -alami
full: -maŋupiawuɹ̣in̪t̪i
full: muləkin̪a
full: -pan̪t̪upwa
full: walampaɹ̣ni
full: yiŋaɹ̣ti
girl: kiɹ̣it̪i-ŋa
give: -akəɹ̣ai
give: ani
give: -ilua
good: pit̪uali-ni
good: pumpu-ni
grass: upu-ŋa
grass: upu-ni
guts: matukwamini
guts: yimata
hair: kaimwaɣa
hair: murula
hair: wələŋəɹ̣ə-
hair: yəruliɣa
hair: yilima
hair: yilipuɣa
hand: əɹ̣ə-
hand: wamuta
hand: yikaɹ̣a
head: matiŋiɹ̣i-
head: puŋintaɣa
head: tulua
hear: apuŋita-
hear: -muŋuma
hear: -muŋuma
hear: -piɹ̣ntaŋaya
hear: -piɹ̣ntaŋaya
heart: pwarəkiɹ̣i
heart: ɹ̣uwuti
heavy: alan̪awi-
heavy: aliŋupwa-
here: auŋwara
here: naŋki
here: ŋara
he/she: a-
he/she: a-pə-
he/she: ŋara
he/she: n̪ira
he/she: t̪i-
he/she: yi-
hit: -milima
hit: -pəmaɣi
hit: -piɹ̣ni
hit: puli
hold: -ini
hold: -unuŋiɹ̣iɣa
hole: yaŋami-ni
horn: t̪̪aupura
horn: yiŋkərupu-ka
house: kurampali
how: auŋwana
hunt: kulalaɣa
if: ŋəni
I: məni-
I: ŋə-
I: ŋia
in: kaɣi
in: ka ŋa(m)pi
in: kapi
in: yilaɹ̣u
kill: -piɹ̣ni
knee: maɹ̣akat̪a
knee: pula-
knee: wurua
knee: yimpula
know: muŋəɹ̣umi
know: -puŋətəɹ̣umi
lake: yərəŋaɹ̣-ni
laugh: -takwayini
laugh: -wulin̪t̪ini
leaf: kaimwaɣa
leaf: pəraɹ̣ti
left: paliŋan̪a
lie: -mat̪əripi
lightning: puməɹ̣ali
lip: tiŋawa
live: -məɹ̣iŋaara
live: -mu
liver: pwat̪ukuɹ̣a
long: murupu-
long: murupu-ti
long: yuruku-
long: yuruku-ni
louse: mimpini
louse: mimpi-ni
louse: wuliwa-ni
man: awuri-ni
man: awuri-ni
man: ŋaɹ̣ikətəməni-ni
man: ti-ni
many: taikuwa-
meat: puniŋkapa
meat: puniŋkapa
meat: yin̪t̪ulota
moon: t̪apara
moon: t̪aparuli-ni
morning: aɹ̣awari
morning: t̪apinaɹ̣i
morning: wut̪akaɹ̣i
mosquito: ɹ̣akuma
mosquito: mimiŋa
mosquito: təməla-
mother: -naɹ̣i-ŋa
mountain: t̪ipin̪u-ni
mouth: yərəpuntaɹ̣a
name: yinta-ŋa
navel: awəri-
navel: təmpuripa
navel: t̪ənuŋkwa
near: kətariŋkətai
near: yiŋkitai
neck: məɹ̣ə-
neck: məɹ̣ətiɣa
neck: mulua
neck: tiliwini
new: auɹ̣aŋki-ni
new: kiɹ̣it̪i-
night: t̪apinamini
night: t̪apini
not: -amaɹ̣i
not: aɹ̣nuŋkwa
not: kaɹ̣lu
old: aɹ̣ikula-
old: paɹ̣li-ni
old: purumaɹ̣i-ŋa
old: purumaɹ̣-ti
old: yiŋkuɹ̣-
old: yin̪t̪ula
old: yurula
one: mampaɹ̣a
one: n̪ati-ŋa
one: paŋkin̪a
one: ya-ti
one: yipala
other: n̪o-ŋa
other: yo-ni
person: ti-na
person: ti-ni
person: ti-wi
play: wulin̪t̪ini
pull: -kitikimi
pull: -urua
push: -aŋiri
rain: pakitəɹ̣i-ŋa
rain: taɹ̣ati-ŋa
rain: -uŋuwali
rain: yiɹ̣uwai
rat: pətuŋuruwu-ka
rat: pwampu-ŋa
rat: wuɹ̣iwata-ka
rat: yintimu-ŋa
red: yari-ŋa
right: aɹ̣ipa
ripe: kiana
river: makati-ŋa
road: pilimi-ŋa
road: t̪arumwa-ka
root: muŋkwaɹ̣-ti
root: t̪ikaɹ̣la
root: t̪uɹ̣ntuma
root: yərəkaɹ̣la
rope: alapa(n̪)t̪ia
rotten: piɹ̣nipa-ni
round: wuɹ̣amaɹ̣i
round: yipipiliŋapa
rub: -apuka
salt: kəriɹ̣i-ka
sand: nampərəŋi-ni
sand: tiŋa-ti
say: -aŋəɹ̣aɣa
say: -aŋəɹ̣aɣa
say: -mi
say: -utiara
scratch: -kəɹ̣əŋai
scratch: -kəɹ̣ira
sea: murupa-ka
sea: wi-ŋa
see: alimwantiɣi
see: -a(ŋ)kələwin̪i
see: -aŋkələwin̪i
seed: kuɹ̣ukuɹ̣a
see: -əmani
see: kulalaɣa
see: -uput̪i
sew: -uɹ̣awia
sharp: tərəkini
sharp: tərəwini
short: kaɹ̣uwu-
shoulder: ŋə(m)pala
shoulder: ŋəɹ̣ntaya
shoulder: takulta
shoulder: yimpəɹ̣ata
sing: əpən̪t̪iŋa-
sing: kawakawai
sing: -kəɹ̣əwala
sister: -ŋulipi
sister: -yu(m)puŋa
sit: -məɹ̣iŋara
sit: -mu
skin: mipura
skin: puliminta
skin: tawila
sky: wampa-ka
sky: yuŋuŋkwa
sleep: -mili
sleep: paipai
sleep: piani
small: kiɹ̣iti-
smell: -akəlarua
smell: kəlimi-ni
smell: -wanti
smoke: kumuripi-ni
smoke: kuŋan̪i
smoke: lanikəpi-ni
snake: aɹ̣uwu-ŋa
snake: -ŋini
snake: taɹ̣i-ŋa
son: -məɹ̣a-ni
son: -mwaɹ̣-ti
sour: kwami-
sour: malakati
sour: yiŋkəriri-
sour: yiŋkərit̪iɹ̣ti
spit: pat̪əɹ̣ati
spit: yərəŋaɹ̣a
split: -makan̪a
squeeze: -uniŋitiɣi
stand: -inti
star: muɹ̣a(n)tiŋala
star: t̪apali-ŋa
stone: waɹ̣a-ŋa
straight: təɹ̣əpuyi-
straight: tuwulimiyi-
sun: pukwi
sun: waɹ̣nari-ŋa
sun: yimi-ŋa
sweet: tamulan̪t̪i-ni
sweet: tawuɹ̣a-ti
sweet: yiŋwa-ti
swell: -awurit̪uɹ̣a
swell: -wuti
swim: antə(ŋə)-
swim: mwaɹ̣liki
tail: aɹ̣ipia
tail: tuwaɹ̣a
take: -aŋkina
take: -maruɹ̣i
take: mitaya
that: kapini
that: ŋini
they: pu-
they: wəni-
they: wu-
they: wuta
thick: aɹ̣ikula-
thick: t̪əmpira
thick: wuraɣa
thigh: kəɹ̣ipayua
thigh: yiŋkala
thin: kəlirupa-
think: -əpiri
thin: kiɹ̣it̪i-
thin: pwat̪ala
this: aŋinaki
this: kapinaki
this: ŋinaki
thorn: murupu-ni
thou: mani-
thou: mən̪i-
thou: n̪ə-
thou: ŋə-pə-
thou: ŋə-t̪ə-
thou: ŋin̪t̪a
thou: nua
thou: t̪i-
three: t̪at̪ərima
three: yirat̪ərima
three: yirat̪ərima
throat: məɹ̣aka
throw: -un̪au
tie: -ukumina
today: niŋani
tomorrow: paŋari
tongue: apat̪i-
tongue: kaɹ̣aliki
tongue: yimitaɹ̣la
tooth: yiliɹ̣iŋuwana
tooth: yiŋkana
tree: ə(ŋə)-
tree: puɹ̣in̪t̪əri-ŋa
tree: ta-ka
turn: -at̪a(m)puni
turn: -at̪a(m)punimaya
two: yiraɹ̣a
vagina: ŋot-ni
vagina: puŋkwa-ti
vagina: yərapata
vagina: yimuala
vagina: yimwaɹ̣a
vomit: puaŋini
vomit: t̪ululi
vomit: wiɹ̣iŋani
walk: -aŋulimai
walk: -at̪impuni
walk: kali
walk: -mi
walk: -uɹ̣i
wallaby: t̪əpwat̪uri-ŋa
wallaby: t̪əraka
warm: kəɹ̣ənəkə-
warm: yikwamaɹ̣i
warm: yikwanaɹ̣
wash: -wuniraya
wash: -wuniri
water: kuku-ni
water: kukwa
water: maŋulumpi
water: puni(m)puni
water: yərəŋaɹ̣-ni
weep: piliŋkiti
we (excl.): məwəni-
we (excl.): ŋawa
we (excl.): ŋə-pə-
we (excl.): ŋə-t̪ə-
we (incl.): mani
we (incl.): ŋa-
we (incl.): ŋaɣa
wet: -ukwami
we two (incl.): mani-
we two (incl.): mu-
we two (incl.): mua
what: kamu-
when: auŋwari
where: maka
white: murunta-
who: kuwa-
wife: -punayiŋa
wife: t̪aɹ̣imukuɹ̣ti
wind: malu
wind: wunin̪t̪a-ka
wing: wiliɹ̣a
wipe: -piri
wipe: -wuniri
woman: ti-ŋa
woman: yimpaɹ̣lin̪a
wood: puɹ̣in̪t̪i-ti
wood: taŋi-ni
wood: wantaŋi-ni
yellow: arikuni
yesterday: aulaɣa
yesterday: naŋun̪t̪i
yesterday: t̪apini
