ankle: oto = "leg
ankle: otu-butu = "knee
ankle: yengkeng
arm: me(ka)
arm: me(ka)
arm: me(ka)
arm: metre su
arrow: pəra
arrow: pəra
ashes: kipa
ashes: kum
ashes: tifa
ashes: tifa
ashes: tipa
ashes: tipa
ashes: tipa
ashes: tipa
ashes: tipa
at: na
back: motosu
bad: kepawe
bad: peko
bad: srai
bark: se
bark: sie
bark: sye
belly: esere
belly: yase
belly: yase
belly: yesëre
belly: yesësë
big: dele
big: dere
big: detre
big: (eu)dele
big: moti
bird: ae
bird: ao
bird: awe
bird: awë
bird: awë
bird: awë
bird: awə
bird: awə
bird: awə
bird: awə
bird: awër
bird: awo
bird: awo
bite: ekë-
bite: ekə-
bite: ekə-
bite: ekipo(ime)
bite: nanë-
bite: nanə-
bitter: pete
bitter: petë
bitter: petə
bitter: petə
black: neko-neko
black: neko-neko
black: neko-neko
black: nëko-nëko
black: nëko-nëko
black: nəko-nəko
black: nəko-nəko
black: nëxo-nëxo
black: noko
black: noko-noko
blood: duo
blood: sa
blood: sa
blood: sa
blood: sa
blood: sa
blood: sa
blood: saː
blood: saː
blood: saa
blow: mapë-
blow: mapə-
blow: mapə-
bone: duo
bone: mengkei
bone: meŋkei
bone: meŋkei
bone: oro
bone: oro
bone: oro
bone: oro
branch: mise
branch: mise
branch: mise
branch: misie
branch: misye
breast: kong
breast: kong
breast: kong
breast: kong dou
breathe: enulu-te yepewe
brother: aka
brother: motona (older
brother: udeke
brother: yalise
brother: younger)
burn: elepiku
burn: elzepuku
burn: herefuxo
burn: sakupuku
butterfly: ae-kingking
butterfly: au-kingking
butterfly: awe (ki)king
butterfly: eikukura
butterfly: hau-gengking
butterfly: safifa
calf: kewaa
calf: kowaa
calf: kowa duo
cassowary: su(a)le
cassowary: suare
cheek: katu
cheek: katu
cheek: katu
cheek: katu
cheek: qatu
chest: kena
child: yei
child: yenining
chin: sei
chin: sei katu
chin: sei katu
chin: sei katu
cloud: ma
cloud: ma
cloud: ma
cloud: ma
cloud: ma
cloud: ma
cloud: ma
cloud: sero
come: datə
come: datə
come: datëma
come: datë mëwë
come: me
come: me
come: miai
come: mime
come: mime
come: mime
come: mime
come: mime
count: (mətə)bewə
count: (mətə)bewə
crocodile: ka(ng)kurun
crocodile: kangkurung
cut: nə-
cut: pero
cut: pero
daughter: womi
daughter: womi
daughter: womi
day: daise
day: dai(syə)
die: diya tetepukoi
die: no
die: petepeku
die: tëtë
die: tətə
die: teto-bugho
dig: weipomie
dig: wewë-
dig: wewə-
dig: wewə-
dirty: niki
dirty: niki
dirty: niki
dog: yoku
dog: yoku
dog: yoku
dog: yoku
dog: yoku
dog: yoku
dog: yoku
dog: yoku
drink: anë-masin
drink: anisime
drink: buta-nimi
drink: bute anisi
drink: bute antesine
drink: dusime
dry: jrapuku
dry: kelapoko
dry: këra-
dry: kəra-
dry: kla-kla
dry: krabuxo
ear: benteki
ear: betengkei
ear: buntëkai
ear: buntekei
ear: buntëkei
ear: buntəkei
ear: buntəkei
ear: bwëntëxei
ear: pentakey
earth: kani
earth: kani
earth: kani
earth: kani
earth: kani
earth: kani
earth: kani
earth: kani
earth: kani
earth: kani
earth: kani
earth: kani
earth: kënda
eat: ane
eat: anë
eat: anë-
eat: anə-
eat: anə-
eat: ani
eat: ani
eat: anine
eat: anine
eat: anine
eat: anu
eat: tum(peko)
eat: tunepoi
egg: ae-dong
egg: au-dong
egg: (awe-)don(g)
egg: dong
egg: dong
egg: dong
egg: doŋ
egg: doŋ
egg: doŋ
egg: doŋ
elbow: me-butu
excrement: ete
excrement: etë
eye: do
eye: dou
eye: ëndow
eye: ndou
eye: ndou
eye: ndou
fall: ketei poime
fall: ku-
far: baina
far: denebu
father: delei (mu)mai
father: mëmai
father: məmai
fat (n.): mërai-bu
fat (n.): yu
fat (n.): yu
fat (n.): yu
fat (n.): yu
fat (n.): yu
feather: (ae-)pie
feather: (awe) pie
feather: fie
feather: fie
fight: saŋkut
finger: me-keu
finger: me-keu dele
finger: mə kwəu
finger: me nyau
fingernail: (meka-)keu
fingernail: (mëka-)keu
fingernail: mëka-keu
fingernail: məka-keu
fingernail: më mëngkëi
fingernail: mə məŋkəi
fingernail: mengkei
fingernail: (moka-)keu
finger: oto-keu
fire: sin
fire: sin
fire: sing
fire: sin(g)
fire: sin(g)
fire: siŋ
fish: ka
fish: ka
fish: ka
fish: ka
fish: ka
fish: ka
five: mekasubëi
five: mesi
five: mesi
five: məsi
float: ya
fly (n.): kapo
fly (n.): kapo
fly (n.): kapo
fly (n.): xafo
fly (v.): nekë-
fly (v.): nekə-
forehead: paita
forehead: patia
forest: mela (buru)
forest: mëra buru
four: kri-mbei
four: kri(mbei)
four: sari
fruit: eu
fruit: masu
fruit: na
fruit: (o-)na
full: kë-mewë
full: (kə)mewə
full: netewade
full: wanda anapuka
full: yase-wande
full: yët-oande
give: i
give: ineme
give: inëme
give: inëme
give: inəme
give: -iteme
give: itëme
give: mitime
good: foi
good: foi
good: foy
good: fu-foi
good: (pë-)poi
good: poi
good: poi
good: poi
grass: ay
grass: aya
grass: ge
grass: osi
green: belu
green: nisi(-nisi)
green: yango-yango
guts: eser kia
guts: yeti
hair: eu-pie
hair: fie
hair: nua
hair: nua
hair: nua
hair: nua
hair: nuna
hair: nwa
hair: uNa
hand: me
hand: më
hand: mə
hand: meka
hand: meka
hand: moka
head: bëlengka
head: bërangka
head: blengka
head: brangka
head: brengka
head: breŋka
head: tenai
head: tenay
head: ton-yang
head: tonyei
head: ton-yeng
hear: bet-
hear: bet-
hear: bətoe
hear: bëtoë
hear: boto-
heavy: se
heavy: së
heavy: sə
heel: oto temutu
heel: oto tenutu
here: menaye
he/she: die
he/she: dyëi
he/she: maopopa
he/she: ne
he/she: -ne
he/she: -ne
he/she: në
he/she: nə
hit: toipoime
hole: bulu
hole: bulu
hole: buru
hole: buru
house: mie
house: mie
house: mye
house: mye
house: ongko
house: pale
house: parë
house: parə
husband: do
I: de
I: de
I: de
I: de
I: dë
I: də
I: de ~ də
in: a
in: esuna
I: -te
I: -te
I: -te
I: wepebesik
kill: topomie (?)
knee: (oto-)butu
knee: (oto-)butu
knee: oto-butu
knee: yengkeng
laugh: dëtë dëwë
laugh: dətə dəwə
leaf: fëkei
leaf: këpai
leaf: (ke-)pe
leaf: kë-pei
leaf: (kə)pei
leaf: (o-)kepai
leaf: (o-)pe
left: miri su
left: miru su
leg: oto
leg: oto
leg: oto
leg: oto
leg: oto
leg: oto
leg: oto
leg: oto
lie: tëno-
lie: təno-
lightning: eli
lightning: eli
lightning: eri
lightning: eri
lip: auwa
lip: eva
live: wali
live: wari
live: wari
long: tigi
long: tiki
long: tiki
long: tiki
long: tiki
louse: ming
louse: ming
louse: ming
louse: ming
louse: ming
louse: miŋ
louse: miŋ
louse: opi
man: do
man: do
man: do
man: do
man: do
man: do
man: do
man: do(yei)
many: dopele
many: eren-dofre
many: tereng
many: tërëng
many: tərəŋ
many: tërn-dofre
meat: dotrulu
meat: dotrulu
meat: eu
meat: eu
moon: oko
moon: oko
moon: oko
moon: oko
moon: oko
moon: oko
morning: dene(-bu)
morning: dene-mbu
morning: yakau
mosquito: se
mosquito: sunggurung
mosquito: sungkunung
mosquito: sungkunu(ng)
mother: deleinamen
mountain: meko
mountain: moko
mountain: sëro
mountain: sëro
mountain: sëro
mountain: soro
mouth: em-beu
mouth: em-blu
mouth: em-bu(l)ru
mouth: em-bulu
mouth: em-buru
name: do
name: eduo
name: seso
name: wado
name: wado
name: wado
name: wado
nape: sanende
narrow: kəkə
navel: buntung
near: eitouna
near: wambe
neck: naggu
neck: nangko
neck: seso
neck: seso
new: manifana
new: manipana
new: neme
new: neme-dopelre
new: neplei
new: nufrenia
new: sekolo
new: sëkro
new: səkro
new: suambai
night: dën
night: dən
night: dene
night: dënë
night: dənə
night: deneng
night: denie
night: denie
night: tereng
nose: timbko
nose: timëxo
nose: timëxo-buru
nose: timiko
nose: timiko
nose: timoko bulu
nose: timuko
not: ambai
not: pai
old: lotëro petua
old: sonyang
old: sonyang
old: wali-sna
one: bei
one: besika
one: besika
one: besika
one: besika
one: besika
one: mbei
one: mbei
one: mbei:
person: de-tro
person: do-tro
person: yo-tëro
pull: dawə-
pull: yepo-
pull: yëpoe-
pull: yəpowə-
push: susa-
push: susa-
rain: bi
rain: bi
rain: bi
rain: bi
rat: nangko
rat: nangko
rat: wafo
red: ming-ming
red: nimi
red: nimi-nimi
red: nimi(-nimi)
ripe: kla-kla
ripe: nimi
ripe: nimi
ripe: nimi
ripe: poitre
river: merewai
river: (mere)wai
river: (mere)wai
river: moroai
road: newaesime
road: nifi
road: nifi
road: nipi
road: nipi
road: nipi
road: nipi
root: inso
root: o-niso
root: (o-)yanso
root: yenso
rope: sa
rope: sa
rope: sa
rope: sa
round: këfo-bugo
round: këmbou-këmbou
round: kəmbou-kəmbou
round: kepeo-kepea
round: yembuboku
round: yembubuku
sand: kisi
sand: kisi
sand: kisi
sand: tisi
say: elime
say: ere
say: erë-
say: erə-
say: erewe
say: erime
scratch: kenëwë-
scratch: kenəwə-
sea: nau
sea: nau
sea: nau
seed: iu
seed: na
seed: na-nggeng
seed: na(ngke)
see: te
see: të-
see: tə-
see: tekene
see: tenime
see: tenime
see: tenime
see: tenime
see: tinbomie
see: tumbëkare
sew: seyəwə
sharp: yëmo
sharp: yəmo
short: po
short: po
shoulder: nate
sing: dimi-
sister: motona (older
sister: n-eka
sister: -udeke
sister: yalise
sister: younger)
sit: ane kema
sit: keime
sit: keime
sit: keime
skin: ele
skin: ele
skin: ele
skin: ele
skin: ele
skin: elo
skin: ere
skin: ere
skin: erë
skin: erə
sky: ma
sky: mang
sleep: ku
sleep: ku tatanar
sleep: yuku
sleep: yuku
sleep: yuku tëtenoime
sleep: yuku(te tenow)
small: kia
small: melre newai
small: moti
small: moti
small: nanggeng
smell: kərə
smoke: (si)n-ifi
smoke: sin-upu
smoke: sunufu
smoke: yupu
smoke: yupu
snake: wale
snake: wali
snake: ware
snake: warë
snake: wari
some: posi(te)
sour: tinimi
spit: eki
spit: eki toipoime
stab: në-
stand: esu-
stand: ësüë
stand: yemime
star: mea
star: meya
star: meya
star: mëya
stone: olu
stone: oru
stone: oru
stone: oru
stone: oru
stone: oru
stone: oru
stone: oru
stone: oru
suck: mape
sun: soning
sun: soning
sun: sonin(g)
sun: soniŋ
sun: su
sun: su
sun: su
sun: su
sun: su
sweet: yu
swim: deimimi
swim: domimi
swim: suku-suku
swim: tsiki-tsiki
tail: deme
tail: deme
tail: demë
tail: dëmë
tail: dëmë
tail: dəmə
tail: dəmə
tail: dëngmë
tail: yoe
take: dowime
that: debeasa
that: di
that: dili
that: nebeyasa
that: nesa
they: die
they: ditëto
they: domoseri
they: -me
they: në
they: ne ai
they: nedli
they: neye
they: simomai
they two: ne-be
they two: nedo-be
they two: -ne ei
they two: -pe
thigh: kembong
thigh: kombong
thin: sərə-sərə
this: beasa
this: da
this: da
this: dabea
this: dëla
this: na
thorn: sye
thou: -mbe
thou: -me
thou: we
thou: we
thou: -we
thou: -we
thou: wë
thou: wë
thou: wə
thou: wə
thou: we(-besika)
thou: wo
three: nami(bei)
three: namin
three: naming
three: naming
three: nami(ng)
three: namiŋ
throw: kenye-nyemi
thunder: warepa
thunder: warfa
today: dayaye
today: menayaye
tomorrow: dene
tomorrow: wambete
tongue: feu
tongue: feu
tongue: peu
tongue: peu
tongue: peu
tongue: peu
tongue: peü
tongue: teu
tooth: eti
tooth: eti
tooth: eti
tooth: eti
tooth: eti
tooth: eti
tooth: iti
tree: no
tree: no
tree: o
tree: o
tree: o
tree: o
tree: o
tree: ono
tree: ono
two: be
two: be
two: be
two: bë
two: bi
two: bi
two: bi
two: bi
two: bo
vagina: k(e)ma
vomit: mike
walk: ende
walk: ende
walk: eseme!
walk: ewë!
walk: (oto-)tëmare
walk: serai betewarema
walk: sraibeitei
wallaby: ayoqu-yoqu
wallaby: (pauna) sakia
warm: namu
warm: namu
wash: suku
water: bu
water: bu
water: bu
water: bu
water: bu
water: bu
water: bu
water: bu
we: dëtëtoro
we: deye
we: deye
we: deye
we: e:
weep: demite dimime
weep: dimi
weep: dimi-pekodimai
weep: dimite-dimiu
weep: dimite-dimiw
weep: ëndow-bu
weep: (n)do bu
we: -ma
we: -me
we: metreye
we: motërana
wet: kani-kani
we two: e-be(ye)
we two (incl.): -a
we two (incl.): de-be
we two (incl.): -pe
we: we:
what: alropei
what: beasa
what: beasa
what: biasa
white: kere
white: kërëu
white: kereu-kereu
white: kereu-kereu
white: kleu-kleu
white: kulu-kulu
white: kuru-kuru
who: sing
who: using
who: wësin
wide: kura
wife: mile
wind: alu
wind: aru
wind: aru
wind: aru
wind: aru
wind: aru
wind: haru
wing: den
wing: neto
wing: nëto
wing: nëto
wing: nəto
with: -përë
woman: mile
woman: milze
woman: mire
woman: mire
woman: mirë
woman: mirə
woman: mirie
wood: dyë
wood: dyə
wood: iye
yellow: yanggo-yanggo
yellow: yangko
yellow: yangko-yangko
yellow: yangko(-yangko)
yellow: yaŋko-yaŋko
yesterday: dace
yesterday: ene
yesterday: we ya
yesterday: we ya
you: detro-dofre
you two: -pe
you two: -pe
you two: we-be
you: we
you: we(-mosere) tëtoro
you: we(-nekawe)
you: wo
