all: moi-moi
all: moi-moi
all: moi-moi
all: moi-moi
and: se
and: se
and: si
and: si
animal: binataŋ
animal: binataŋ
animal: haiwan
animal: haiwan
animal: haiwan
animal: haiwan
ankle: yohu ma aki
ankle: yohu ma aki
ankle: yohu ma lao
ankle: yohu ma lao
arm: batiko
arm: gia
arm: gia
arm: gia ma ǯiko
arrow: ǯubi ma ŋɔfa
arrow: ǯubi ma ŋɔfa
ashes: fika
ashes: fika
ashes: fika
ashes: fika
ashes: fika
ashes: noːŋ ma riha
ashes: uku-ma riha
back: dulu
back: dulu
back: dulu
back: dulu
back: dulu
back: dulu
back: dulu
bad: jira
bark: ahi
bark: ahi
bark: (hate) ma ahe
bark: (hate) ma ahe
belly: ŋofo lamo
belly: oru
belly: oru
belly: oru
belly: oru
belly: oru
belly: oru
belly: oru
belly: oru
big: lamo
big: lamo
big: lamo
big: lamo
big: lamo
bird: namo
bird: namo
bird: namo
bird: namo
bird: namo
bird: toko
bitter: kɔkɔfi
bitter: kɔkɔfi
bitter: momali
bitter: momali
black: kokotu
black: kokotu
black: kokotu
black: kokotu
black: kotu
blood: ao
blood: ao
blood: au
blood: au
blood: au
blow: iru
bone: goka
bone: goka
bone: goka
bone: gɔka
bone: gɔka
boy: ngongare
boy: ŋoŋare
branch: maǯaga
branch: maǯaga
branch: sagala
branch: sagala
breast: isu
breast: isu
breast: isu
breast: isu
breast: isu ma lao
breast: isu ma ŋobo
breast: susu
breathe: so
breathe: so
breathe: sosugu
breathe: sosugu
brother: hira
brother: hira
brother: iyua ma dihutu
brother: iyua ma dihutu
brother: iyua ma ǯoǯo
brother: iyu ma ɲira
brother: maɲira
brother: nongoru
brother: ǯoǯo nonau
burn: ho
burn: ho
burn: oso
burn: tabe
butterfly: kumi
butterfly: kumi
butterfly: kumi-kumi
butterfly: kumi-kumi
calf: ŋoni-ŋoni
calf: ŋuni
calf: usi-usi
calf: usi-usi
calf: yohu ma isu
calf: yohu ma isu
cheek: waŋ
cheek: waŋ
cheek: waŋ
cheek: waŋ
chest: isu
chest: isu
chest: isu
chest: isu
child: haiwan ma ŋofa
child: ngofa
child: ŋofa
child: ŋofa
child: ŋɔfa
child: ŋofa maɲira
child: ŋofa maɲira
child: ŋɔfa ma ǯoǯo
child: ŋɔfa ma ǯoǯo
chin: oko
chin: oko
chin: oko
chin: ɔko
chin: ɔko
claw: kuku
claw: kuku
claw: ǯuǯum
claw: ǯuǯum
cloud: kamo
cloud: kamo
cloud: lobi
cloud: lobi
cloud: lobi
cloud: lobi
cold: alo
cold: alo
cold: alo
cold: goga
cold: goga
come: haro
come: ino
come: yado
crocodile: soma
crocodile: soma
crocodile: soma
cut: tofo
cut: tola
daughter: ŋɔfa fafayaʔ
daughter: ŋɔfa fafayaʔ
daughter: ŋofa fofoya
daughter: ŋofa fofoya
day: sita
day: wai
day: waŋe
day: wange-lamo
die: sone
die: sone
die: sone
die: sone
die: sone
die: sone
die: sɔni
die: sɔni
die: sɔni
dig: fai
dig: fai
dig: fai
dig: fai
dig: fai
dig: fay
dog: kaso
dog: kaso
dog: kaso
dog: kaso
dog: kaso
dog: kɑso
dog: kɑso
drink: oyo
drink: oyo
drink: ɔyɔ
drink: ɔyɔ
drink: yuru
dry: hotu
dry: hotu
dry: hoturiŋa
dry: riŋa
dry: riŋa
dry: riŋa (hotu)
ear: ŋao
ear: ŋao
ear: ŋau
ear: ŋau
ear: nga(w)u
ear: ŋawu
ear: ŋawu
earth: hale
eat: oyo
eat: oyo
eat: oyo
eat: oyo
eat: oyo
eat: ɔyɔ
eat: ɔyɔ
egg: gohi
egg: gohi
egg: gohi
egg: gosi
egg: gosi
egg: gosi
egg: gosi
elbow: gia ma buku
elbow: gia ma buku
elbow: gia ma buku
elbow: gia ma buku
emu: kasawari
emu: kasuwari
excrement: iho
eye: lako
eye: la(k)o
eye: lao
eye: lao
eye: lao ma gɔgɔ
eye: lau ma gogo
face: gai
face: gai
far: gulu
far: gulu
father: papa
father: papa
father: papa
fat (n.): gaǯi
fat (n.): lamo
feather: gogo
feather: gogo
feather: ma pila
few: kenebo
few: kinibo
finger: gia-ma-ŋoda
finger: gia ma raga
finger: gia ma raga
finger: maŋɔda
fingernail: jungu
fingernail: ǯuǯum
fingernail: ǯuǯum
fire: hitu
fire: roriyat
fire: ruria
fire: uku
fire: uku
fire: uku
fire: uku
fish: ɲao
fish: ɲao
fish: ɲau
fish: nyao
fish: nyau
five: rɔmɔtɔha
five: romtoha
five: romtoha
five: romtoha
flower: buŋa
flower: buŋa
flower: saya
flower: saya
flower: saya
flow: yufi
fly (n.): gufu
fly (n.): gufu
foot: saha
foot: yohu
foot: yohu
foot: yohu
foot: yohu
forehead: ani
forehead: aniː
forest: banga
forest: baŋa
forest: boŋa
four: raha
four: raha
four: ra-ha
four: rɔhɔ
fruit: masɔfo
fruit: sofo
fruit: sofo
fruit: sofo
full: yoma
full: yɔma
girl: ŋofa fofoya kokene
give: filaŋ
give: filaːŋ
give: toa
give: tɔa
good: laha
good: laha
good: laha
grass: gofu
grass: ino
green: iǯo
green: iǯo
hair: gogo
hair: gɔgɔ
hair: gɔgɔ
hair: haiwan ma gogo
hair: hutu
hair: hutu
hair: hutu
hair: hutu
hair: hutu
hand: gia
hand: gia
hand: gia
hand: gia
hand: gia ma saha
hand: gia ma saha
head: dofolo
head: dofolo
head: dofolo
head: dofɔlo
hear: baso
hear: baso
hear: bɑso
heart: gate
heart: ɲiŋa
heart: kusi-kusi
here: kare
here: kariʔ
he/she: mo-
he/she: tino
he/she: una
he/she: wo-
hit: čako
hit: čɑko
hit: dahe
hit: dahi
hit: fa
house: fola
house: fola
house: fola
house: fɔla
how: gohi-mega
how: təbiʔ
husband: nonau
husband: nonau (ra)
husband: ra
I: faŋare
I: faǯaro
in: doya
I: ŋori
I: ŋori-faŋari
in: tɔ ma doya
kill: gahi sɔsɔni
kill: koru
kill: koru
knee: buku-buku
knee: yohu ma buku
know: waro
know: waro
know: waro
lake: ŋolo hotu
laugh: ohe
laugh: ohe
laugh: ɔhi
leaf: marao
leaf: marauː
leaf: rau
left: gubaei
left: kobali
left: kubali
leg: yohu
leg: yohu
lie: bəlutuyaŋ
lie: malule
lie: taŋo
lightning: bɛla-bɛla
lip: liso
lip: moda ma liso
live: oahu
live: ohu
liver: gate
liver: gate ma kokotu
liver: kosi-kosi
long: gaw
long: gira
long: gira
long: gira
long: suru
long: suru
louse: gan
louse: gan
louse: gan
louse: gan
louse: gan
louse: gan na gosi
louse: kaso na gan
man: manusia nonauʔ
man: nanauʔ
man: nonau
man: nonau
man: nonau
many: dofu
many: dofu
meat: rehe
meat: rehe
meat: rɛhɛ
moon: ora
moon: ora
moon: ɔra
mosquito: gofila
mosquito: sisi
mother: yaya
mother: yaya
mother: yaya
mountain: buku
mountain: buku
mountain: buku
mountain: buku kene
mountain: buku kɔkɛnɛ
mountain: kie
mountain: kie-kiye
mouth: moda
mouth: moda
mouth: moda
mouth: mɔda
name: ronga
name: roŋa
name: rɔŋa
narrow: woha-ua
narrow: wɔha uwa
navel: otu
navel: otu
near: seba
near: seba
near: seba ino
neck: sako
neck: sako
neck: sako
neck: sɑko
new: fakiči
new: kiau
new: sung
new: suŋi
new: suŋ-suŋ
night: sifutu
nose: ngun(u)
not: rewa
not: ua
not: ua
not: uwa
old: simo
old: simu
one: rimai
one: rimoi
one: rimoi
person: mansia
person: mansia
person: manusia
person: manusia
play: bisi
play: biso
play: toniru
rain: boha
rain: boha
rain: bɔsa
rain: boso
rat: ŋuti
rat: ŋuti
rat: ŋuti huhu
rat: ŋuti lamo
red: kohori
red: kohori
red: kohori
right: guɲira
right: koɲira
right: kunyira
ripe: yom
ripe: yoːm maruwa
ripe: yoːm rai
river: ake
river: ake
river: guki
river: mote guhi
river: ŋuai ake
road: laliŋa
road: liŋa lamo
root: hutu
root: mo-utu
root: utu
rope: gumi
rope: gumi
round: folulu
round: folulu
salt: gasi
salt: gasi
salt: gasi
sand: ui
sand: ui
sand: u-iː
say: bičara
say: bičara
say: kalam
say: pəksan
say: waǯi
sea: lua-lua
sea: momo-u
sea: mote bau
sea: ngolo
sea: ŋolo
sea: ŋolo
sea: ŋɔlɔ
seed: fin
seed: muhi
see: hoda
see: hoda
see: hɔda
see: lila
sew: čako
sew: čako
sharp: paha
sharp: paha
sharp: paha
short: marari
short: podo
short: podo
short: pɔdɔ
short: pulɛča
shoulder: efa
shoulder: kefe
shoulder: kɛfɛ
sing: ɲaɲi
sing: ɲaɲi
sister: fira
sister: fira ma dihutu
sister: fira ma ɲira
sister: fira ma ǯoǯo
sister: maɲira
sister: ǯoǯo fofoya
sit: torini
sit: torini
sit: turine
skin: ahi
skin: ahi
skin: ahi
skin: ahi
sky: tufa
sky: tufa
sky: tufa
sleep: otu
sleep: otu
sleep: otu
sleep: otu
small: kene
small: kene
small: kɛnɛ
smell: maŋiti
smoke: ɲofo
smoke: ɲɔfɔ
snake: ega
snake: ega
snake: yega
snake: yega
son: ŋofa nonau
son: ŋɔfa nonauʔ
sour: kokofi
sour: kɔkɔfi
spit: kokehe
spit: kɔkɛhɛ
spit: ŋoči
spit: nguci
spit: ŋuči
squeeze: koleto
squeeze: poloso
squeeze: ǯɔhɔ
stand: koko
star: ngoma
star: ŋoma
star: ŋoma
star: ŋɔma tɔ ma tufa
stone: mafo
stone: mafu
stone: mafu
stone: mare
stone: mare
straight: loa
straight: loa
straight: lɔa-lɔa
sun: wange
sun: waŋe ma lako lau
sun: waŋi ma lao
swim: koyafu
swim: tobo
tail: bi
tail: bie
tail: bi\i
tail: ma bi
take: oro
take: ɔrɔ
take: tori
that: ge
that: ta
there: kataʔ
they: ona
they: ona
they: ɔna
they: ɔna
they: yo-
thick: kofiri
thigh: pala-pala
thigh: pala-pala
thigh: pala-pala
thin: hina
think: fikir
think: suɲiŋa
think: taksiri
thin: kurus
thin: rɛhɛ uwa
thin: rɛhɛ ǯira
this: nare
this: re
thou: ŋona
thou: ŋɔna
thou: ŋoni
thou: no-
thou: ǯo
three: ra-aŋe
three: r-ange
three: raŋe
three: raŋe
throat: loǯo-loǯo
throat: sako
throat: sɑko
thunder: doturu
thunder: doturu
tie: kokoni
tie: kone
tie: tobe
today: naŋe re
today: waŋi naŋi
tomorrow: difutu
tomorrow: difutu
tongue: aki
tongue: aki
tongue: aki
tongue: aki
tooth: ing
tooth: iːŋ
tooth: iːŋ
tooth: iːŋwaŋ
tooth: maŋoli
tree: hate
tree: hate
tree: luto
tree: matiti
two: malofo
two: malofo
two: ma lofo
two: ma lofo
unripe: kiaomoǯo
unripe: kohu
unripe: yoːm yaŋ
vagina: tirɔ
vagina: yako
walk: tagi
walk: tagi
walk: tɑgi
warm: sahu
warm: sahu
warm: sosahu
wash: mahogo
wash: mahɔko
wash: roca
wash: uju
water: ake
water: ake
water: ake
water: ake
water: ake ma lao
water: ake ma lau
water: ŋuai ma hutu
weep: lao ma oŋo
weep: ɔŋo
weep: reke
weep: reki
we (excl.): faŋore ŋom
we (excl.): ŋomi moi-moi
we (incl.): fo-
we (incl.): ŋom
we (incl.): ŋomi
we (incl.): ngone
we (incl.): ŋoni
we: mo-
we: ngomi
wet: hɔbɑ
wet: hobo
wet: loleke
wet: obo
what: kabiʔ
what: mega
what: mega
what: mega
when: fio
when: fio
when: timpo mega
where: kabe
where: kabé
where: kabiʔ
white: bobulo
white: bubulau
white: budo
white: bulo
who: nage
who: nagi
wide: wɔha
wide: wola
wife: fayaʔ
wife: fofoya
wife: fofoya (foya)
wind: kore
wind: kore
wind: kore
wing: goluhu
wing: maguluhu
wing: pila
with: se
with: si
woman: fafayaʔ
woman: fayá
woman: fofoya
woman: fofoya
woman: fofoya
woman: manusia fafayaʔ
wood: hate
wood: luto
wood: lutɔ
worm: koltidi
worm: kultidi
year: taon
year: taun
yellow: korači
yellow: kuraci
yellow: kurači
yes: o-e
yes: təgi
yesterday: nigo
yesterday: nigo
yes: ǯo
you: no-
