arm: -umbïnamp
arm: -umbɨnamp
arrow: mɨndasukimp
ashes: gitr
ashes: gitrr
ashes: gʌːwusup
ashes: hë:wusup
back: -nipïtughup
back: -nipɨtuɣup
bad: apugu-
bad: apugu-
belly: tawutïngëp
belly: tawutɨŋʌp
belly: wuyïp
belly: wuyɨp
big: arumakep
big: arumakəp
bird: uwëramp
bird: uwʌramp
bite: -kïnggï-
bite: -kɨŋgɨ-
black: umuru-
black: umuru-
blood: -nënggump
blood: -nʌŋgump
blow: kusiwa-
blow: kusiwa-
bone: -gëwëmp
bone: -gʌwʌmp
breast: mënëmp
breast: mʌnʌmp
brother: raray
brother: raray
brother: -ratsinggamp
brother: -ratsiŋgamp
brother: tatay
brother: tatay
brother: -təkaur
brother: -tïkaur
burn: kïr-
burn: kɨr-
butterfly: apuparë:p
butterfly: apuparʌːp
calf: -gundïmïnïp
calf: -gundɨmɨnɨp
cassowary: mëtsughump
chest: -nikikëmp
chest: -nikikʌmp
child: ɣarkatəpam
child: ghatkatïpam
child: wuwuyigip
child: wuwuyigip
chin: -ukukëmp
chin: -ukukʌmp
cloud: ëpup
cloud: ʌpup
cold: awung-
cold: awuŋ-
come: wi-
come: wi-
crocodile: ëgïnamp
crocodile: ʌɣɨnamp
cut: tʌɣ-
cut: tʌɣə-
cut: tëgh-
cut: tëw-
day: maitagump
day: tïrï
day: tɨrɨ
die: nïmb-
die: nɨmb-
dig: pëp-
dig: pʌp-
dig: tëm-
dig: tʌm-
dirty: sunup-
dirty: sunup-
dog: ëpïnamp
dog: ʌpɨnamp
dry: ipu-
dry: ipu-
ear: -makəganamp
ear: -makïganamp
earth: akïpïmp
earth: akɨpɨmp
eat: name-
eat: ni-
eat: ni-
egg: sinamp
egg: sinamp
elbow: tïnïkïnamp
elbow: tɨnɨkənamp
emu: mʌtsuɣump
excrement: -tamunggump
eye: -ni:nggup
eye: -niːŋgup
fall: grëti-
fall: grʌti-
fall: tëgh-
far: warë:ndukump
far: warʌːndukump
father: waway
father: waway
fat (n.): ghrighëmp
fat (n.): ɣriɣʌmp
fear: tïp-
fear: tɨp-
few: mupëmp
few: mupʌmp
fight: pɨŋg-
fingernail: utanggunggump
fingernail: utaŋguŋgump
fire: usïrïmp
fire: usɨrɨmp
fish: siënëmp
fish: siənʌmp
fly (n.): ëwi:ndüpe
fly (n.): ʌwiːndʉp
fly (v.): prïrïtï-
fly (v.): prrɨrritɨ-
fog: nïnëmp
fog: nɨnʌmp
forest: waramp
forest: waramp
fruit: mïnïp
fruit: mɨnɨp
full: ipu-
full: ipu-
full: kwëtïg-
full: kwʌtɨg-
give: gu-
give: -nggu-/-nunggu-
good: avi-
good: avi-
grass: wëndamp
guts: tawutïngëp
guts: tawutɨŋʌp
hair: -nimbïnggïnëp
hair: nimbɨŋgənʌp
head: -guwutëghump
head: -uwukëmp
head: -uwukʌmp
hear: -indʌ-
hear: -indë-
heart: -niŋəmɨnɨp
heart: -ningïmïnïp
heavy: mïtïg-
heavy: mɨtɨg-
here: arughwët
here: inuku
here: inuku
he/she: ¼-
he/she: ¼-
he/she: nɨ-ɣ
he/she: nɨ-ɣ
he/she: nï-gh
he/she: ni-ka(mp)
he/she: ni-ka(mp)
he/she: ø-
he/she: ø-
hit: pïngg-
hit: pïngg-
hold: kut-
hold: kut-
house: apïnëmp
house: apɨnʌmp
how: anaadugh
I: ya-
I: ya-
I: ya-
I: ya-ɣ
I: ya-gh
I: ya-ka(mp)
kill: tighimu-
kill: -tiɣimu-
knee: -tïmakë:mp
knee: -tɨmakʌːmp
laugh: i:rïpu-
laugh: iːrɨpu-
left: -mamikandɨg
left: -mamikandïg
leg: -niːɣənʌmp
leg: -ni:ghïnëmp
liver: -mapïnggïnamp
liver: -mapɨŋg`ənamp
long: sïwüg-
long: sɨwʉg-
louse: nimënamp
louse: nimʌnamp
man: mindimp
man: mindimp
man: uramp
man: uramp
many: wïtëk
many: wɨtʌk
meat: mërïp
meat: mɨrɨp
moon: ëtëmp
moon: ʌtʌmp
morning: ghëwïgh
morning: marɨ
morning: marï
morning: ɣʌwɨɣ
mosquito: tughump
mother: -mʉŋgayamp
mother: -münggayamp
mother: yamay
mother: yamay
mountain: pïtïkrë:mp
mountain: pɨtɨkrʌːmp
mouth: -mukunggëmp
mouth: -mukuŋgʌmp
name: -nimbi:mp
name: -nimbiːmp
nape: -nïkamp
nape: -nɨkamp
navel: -tindəwukənamp
navel: -tindïwukïnamp
near: wukitïk
near: wukitɨk
neck: -guprïmp
neck: -guprɨmp
new: su-
new: su-
night: tïrï-
night: tɨrɨ-
night: waki-
night: waki-
nose: -nimrëmp
not: wrëti
not: wrʌti
old: tïkëghindëm
old: tɨkʌɣindʌm
old: upu-
old: upu-
one: mïndambët
one: mɨndambʌt
pull: siwinggi-
pull: siwiŋgi-
push: tïpumïnduw-
push: tɨpumɨnduw-
rain: sirëp
rain: sirʌp
rat: tukurump
rat: tukurump
red: nanggu-
red: naŋgu-
right: -kandəɣʌrd
right: -kandïghërd
ripe: mugu-
ripe: mugu-
road: bump
road: bump
root: gïntsirëmp
root: gɨntsirʌmp
rope: wandʌːmbrɨmp
salt: simbïnë:mp
salt: simbɨnʌːmp
sand: atïngamp
sand: atɨŋamp
sand: manggïmp
say: -ga-
say: -ga-
say: mïnim-
say: mɨnim-
scratch: wuyɨ-
scratch: wuyï-
sea: suwunëmp
sea: suwunʌmp
see: igi-
see: -kiːɣ-
see: -ki:gh-
sharp: gïnggï-
sharp: gɨŋgɨ-
sharp: pënd-
short: kïtïtugu-
short: kɨtɨtugu-
shoulder: -maranggamp
shoulder: -maraŋgamp
sing: anggump pë-
sister: -kaniwundingk
sister: -kaniwuniŋk
sister: niwundiŋk
sister: niwundungk
sister: -raskaramp
sister: -raskaramp
sit: mindra-
sit: mindra-
skin: -tsïwanggïnëmp
skin: -tsɨwaŋgənʌmp
sleep: ginɨ
sleep: gïnï-
small: gërkïwïp
small: gʌrkəwɨp
smell: kusi-
smoke: upïnïmp
smoke: upɨnɨmp
snake: tërïnëmp
snake: tʌrɪnʌmp
spit: dʌrandʌm-
spit: -tsumbup
spit: -tsumbup
split: kuwand-
split: kuwand-
stand: taŋgwatam-
stand: tangwatam-
stand: warëk-
star: tinggiëmp
star: tiŋgiʌmp
stick: ëyiwandïp
stone: marïp
stone: marɨp
straight: tïpita-
straight: tɨpita-
sun: andërëmp
sun: andʌrʌmp
swell: ɣʌːɣumu-
tail: ghinanggamp
tail: ɣinaŋgamp
tail: sëmsëp
tail: sʌmsʌp
take: fi-
take: φi-
that: akinïk
that: akinɨk-
there: kwanuku
there: kwanuku
they: nï-nfa-
they: nï-ng
they: nï-ngï-
they: nɨ-ŋ
they: nɨ-ŋɨ-
they: nɨ-ŋa-ka(mp)
thigh: -tëndëmp
thigh: -tʌndʌmp
think: indë:t tumbu
think: indʌːt tumbu
this: ïnïk
this: ɨnək
thou: na-
thou: na-
thou: na-
thou: na-ɣ
thou: na-gh
thou: na-ka(mp)
thou: na-ŋ
thou: na-ŋɨ-
thou: na-ŋa-ka(mp)
throat: -wïkïp
throat: -wɨkɨp
throw: mundug-
throw: mundug-
thunder: apup pariratï-
thunder: apup paritatɨ-
tie: sïwïnggï-
tie: sɨwiŋgɨ-
tomorrow: anungk
tomorrow: nimbit
tomorrow: nimbit
tongue: -maikïnamp
tongue: -maikɨnamp
tooth: -gëmbrump
tooth: -gʌmbrump
tree: ëyïmp
tree: gɨmbɨnɨmp
tree: tʌakənʌmp
tree: ʌyɨmp
turn: krituw-
turn: krituw-
two: yë:kri
two: yʌːkri
vagina: -wiːkənamp
vagina: -wi:kïnamp
vomit: mɨg-
walk: ambutɨ-
walk: wʌ-
walk: wa\ai-
walk: waai-
walk: wë-
walk: wuna-
walk: wuna-
wallaby: ipëramp
wallaby: ipʌramp
warm: muyumugumbay
warm: muyumugumbay
wash: -pitam-
wash: -pitam-
wash: wïyi-
wash: wɨyi-
water: animp
water: animp
we: ɣa-ŋ
we: a-ŋɨ-
we: a-nga-
we: a-ŋa-ka(mp)
we: a-ngï-
weep: iɣ-
weep: igh-
we: gha-ng
wet: mïkï mïkï-
wet: mɨkɨ mɨkɨ
what: mukumu
what: mukumu
where: kandi-
where: kandi-
white: muit-
white: muit-
who: munur-
who: munur-
wind: awunggundump
wind: awuŋgundump
wing: umbutïkëmp
wing: umbutɨkʌmp
woman: awundimp
woman: awundimp
woman: ëwundimp
woman: ʌwumdimp
wood: asirëkïp
wood: asʲʌkɨp
wood: ʌyiwandɨp
yesterday: anungk
yesterday: nïmït
yesterday: nɨmɨt
yes: uri
yes: uri
you: na-ng
you: na-nga-
you: na-nga-
you: na-ngï-
