all: iata sebekenehei
arrow: pɛriŋgɛlɛ
arrow: singoumbo
ashes: nuhukeimbe
ashes: nuhum geimbe
back: arroʷbwa
back: erombo
back: rrombɛ
bad: ɛlkʰa
bad: kaihile
bark: (lowote) erkesi
belly: sembe
belly: sɛmbɛ
big: umbahi
big: umbaihinɛmɛ
bird: altakalɛ
bird: atekele
bird: atɛkɛlɛ
bite: ana
bite: nane
black: ninkerineme
blood: ʊmbalm
blood: nimbalme
blood: nimbañme
blood: umbálmë
bone: nangɛñe
bone: nanggále
bone: naŋgalɛ
bone: nengele
boy: ningal elmel
boy: niŋal ɛlmɛl
boy: nɪŋgal ɛlmɛl
breast: numandil
breast: numantil
brother: sʊmal
brother: warrhɪnɛʔ
brother: wilhɪnɛmɛ
brother: wirhineme
burn: setiele
child: ningal
child: nʊmbiaumo
chin: nonguñhe
chin: nunkelehe
claw: wɛtiŋge
claw: wotinge (altekele)
cloud: walel
cloud: waliyɛl
cold: numobo
come: hɛnɛ nalo
come: nalo
day: andieʲ
day: andiei
die: anetanu
dog: bɛtɛ
dog: pete
dog: pɛtɛ
drink: nane
dry: kukurati
ear: atʰaha
ear: atáha
ear: etaha
ear: ɛtaha
earth: tuhalmbe
earth: tuhalmbe
earth: tuhalmbe
earth: tuhalmbɛ
eat: namine
eat: nane
egg: ihelmbe
egg: i hɛlmbe
elbow: ɛñhɛmbɛ
elbow: (talhu) emuke
emu: nambekele
emu: nambɛkɛlɛ
eye: barite
eye: barrite
eye: perite
eye: perrite
fall: netuke nai
father: akel
father: akɛñ
father: yakäl
fat (n.): bernute ambe
fat (n.): pɛrrmute
feather: elhe (altekele)
feather: eñhe
fingernail: tʰʌkɪlɪha
finger: nomuhɛ
finger: numuhe
finger: wʊtʰɪŋgɛ
fire: sutehe
fire: sutehe
fire: sutɛhɛ
fire: sutɛhɛ
fish: eʲɛ
fish: eile
fish: elɛ
fly (v.): nintetehule
foot: sahitɛ nangalɛ
foot: sehite
foot: seʲitɛ
forehead: ekke
forehead: sambaha
four: nʊtʰantalɛ
four: tetentele
full: naser
girl: ningawɪ ɛlmɛsiə
girl: ningawi elmesie
girl: nɪnawi ɛlmɛsiɛ
give: netihe ume
give: nɛti homo
good: bai
good: bai
grass: wotɛ
green: sinamuneme
hair: walhel
hair: walhel
hair: walhɛl
hair: walhil
hand: talhi
hand: talhi
hand: tali
head: erke
head: erke
head: ɛrrke
head: ɛrrkʰɛ
hear: nati
heart: elhe
heart: ɛñhɛ
heavy: manitehe
he/she: umei biel
hit: narhe
horn: erke palike
horn: paliŋge
house: enembele
house: nɛmbɛlɛ
I: ine
kill: namerehel
knee: ɛl hɛmbe
knee: (sehite) elhembe
know: nente
laugh: naluwe
leaf: sume
leaf: sume
leg: sahitɛ
leg: sehite
leg: sɛhitɛ
lie: natehi
lie: natehi takemel
liver: elhe wonembe
liver: ɛt hɛn tañme
long: kolkolneme
louse: nʊmɛlɛ
louse: numele
man: elmel
man: ɛlmɛl
man: sambɛ
many: wasineme
meat: maihite
meat: nahite
moon: anisi
moon: anisi
moon: anisi
moon: hanisi
morning: nʊwambɛl
morning: uhambel
mother: akɛñ
mother: ni
mountain: samʊŋgwɛ
mountain: semunge
mountain: sɛmunge
mountain: tahɛndɛ
mouth: eitumbwa
mouth: eʲumbwa
mouth: tumbe
mouth: tumbe
name: nalel
name: nañeñ
neck: wangɛlɛ hil
neck: wankelehel
new: mulineme
night: hambel
night: hambɛl
nose: nyinggershi
not: imbe
not: imbe
old: ɛlmɛsiə ʊlapɛ
old: sambɛ ʊlapɛ
old: sambeni ulape
old: sambe ulape
old: tɛlhinɛmɛ uñapɛ
old: tɛlhumu uñape
old: towekineme
one: isili
one: isili
one: (nakan)ɪsɪli
person: sambe
person: sambɛ
rain: anɛhɛ
rain: enehe
rain: ɛnɛhɛ
rat: mandehɛ
rat: mandɛhɛ
rat: mandeihe
rat: tɛlɛhɛ
red: naʷ
red: namo
road: ahate
road: ahate
root: lɛpɛhɛ
root: (lowete) lebehe
root: nambɛlɛ
round: namenike
sand: sahal
sand: sahañ
say: nenatel
seed: (lowote) halhi
see: netali
see: nɛtali
short: birihenem
shoulder: welhe
shoulder: wɛlhɛ
sister: erhumo
sister: ɛrrhumu
sit: nari takemel
sit: rri
skin: séndihe
skin: sɛndihɛ
skin: sɛndihɛ
skin: sentihe
sleep: natehi
small: bitai
small: pitaʲo
smoke: nisul
smoke: nusun
smoke: nusut
snake: sʊmbʊnʊha
snake: sumbunaha
snake: sumbunahe
spit: nesuke
stand: nɛndantu
stand: netandu irauko
star: wasuwe
star: wasuwe
stone: amaha
stone: ɛmaha
sun: yal
sun: yaʊn
sun: yaul
sun: yaun
swim: naluwo irankeri
tail: einumo
tail: ɛnʊmwɛ
that: naha
they: nati nimbile
they two: uberi
this: nihi ke
thou: ehene
thou: wanteheneme
three: minei
three: mɪneʲ
tomorrow: namenke
tongue: elinde
tongue: ɛllinde
tooth: nalhi
tooth: nalhi
tree: lawɛtɛ
tree: lewete
tree: lɛwɛtɛ
tree: lowete
two: biel
two: (nakan)biɛl
two: piɛñ
walk: nambise
walk: nambisɛ
walk: natekuhi
wallaby: eimbel
wallaby: embɛñ
warm: ambeli
water: ambisi
water: ambɪsi
water: nambisil
water: nambisil
we (excl.): ime
wet: nambisi
we two (excl.): ime biel
what: nemene
when: melime
where: iame
white: eʲdɛna
white: einteneme
who: mie
wind: sahandiwɛ
wind: sahanduwo
wing: wɛlhe
wing: wolhe (altekele)
woman: elmesie
woman: ɛlmɛšiə
woman: ɛñmɛsiɛ
wood: pangele
yellow: sirinbeneme
yes: auhe
yesterday: embuse
you two: ehi biel
