all: wulayi
all: wulgulya
animal: yiɟa
ankle: guṇḍi
ankle: ŋaraŋgaḷɲin
arm: ṇuŋguṇa
arm: wumuninɟi
arm: wunuŋgu
ashes: buḷŋu
ashes: wubulŋo
back: ɟanda
back: malir
back: marulbu
back: marulbu
back: mundur
bad: nagarw̄uḷmain
bad: wirɟu
bark: ɲaḍin
bark: wuyulwai
because: aru
belly: mala
belly: ŋanɟa
belly: ŋanɟa
belly: wuŋanɟa
big: balwayi
big: nabalwayi
big: ɹ̣uŋgal
bird: aṛayi
bite: ɟag
bite: gal-ɟa-
bite: ḷir
bite: liri\ŋaiaŋani
bitter: balgiɲ
bitter: wubalgi
black: nawagwag
black: waŋguraɲɟa
blood: maŋuliɟ
blood: ŋuliɟi
blow: bo ŋamini
blow: weabani
bone: muḷiriɲ
bone: ŋayigan
bone: wuŋaɹ̣aga
bone: wuŋaṛaga
boy: namaɲagu
boy: namanur
boy: waḷya
branch: maɹ̣baɹ̣ba
branch: ṇuŋguṇa
branch: wumalbaṛba
breast: wambibi
breathe: ŋiɹ̣
breathe: ŋir\ŋiŋamani
brother: -ɹ̣aga
brother: ŋaniṛaga
brother: ŋawa\i
brother: -wayi
burn: ɟaḍɟaḍ
burn: anaŋimani
burn: bu
burn: dain ŋurgi
burn: guṇiɟ
burn: -naŋi-
burn: ŋanaŋ\ŋimani
calf: nduru
cheek: wuguḷman
chest: maḍaŋar
chest: ṇaɹ̣uma
chest: wuruma\ŋini
child: abaḍaḍa
child: baḍaḍa
chin: wuɟawanda
cloud: mala
cloud: wumala
cold: dog ŋaraya
come: yaː ŋarani
correct: gunadiṛ\diṛ
crocodile: abaɟaŋi
crocodile: ḍaḍaɟara
crocodile: ṇaŋguru
crocodile: waḷaɟandama
cut: ɟar
cut: galg-ɟa-
cut: -ilama-
cut: lar ŋagini
cut: luru ŋagaia
dark: -mugami
dark: waŋguraɲɟa
daughter: ŋaniɟa
day: marɟaŋaŋa
day: wururgmirargmin
die: ŋaba
die: ŋabaɹ̣
die: ŋabaṛami
die: ŋambul\ŋagaɲi
die: ṛamamini
dig: gaḷ
dig: galg ŋidaŋani
dig: ɲil
dig: ŋur
dirty: buɹ̣ŋguɹ̣
dirty: gugarayara
dog: awuŋgan
dog: garwiɹ̣i
dog: wuŋgan
drink: guḷ
drink: gul ŋaɟani
dry: bunɟi
dry: wuṛugu
ear: maganam
earth: wanbaḷgur
earth: wanbaḷgur
ear: wanam
eat: -ŋa-
eat: ŋaŋamani
egg: waɹ̣ugu
egg: wawad̪ugu
egg: wulaba
elbow: murunɟi
elbow: wumíruɟi
emu: ŋiwurugain
emu: ŋi-wurugan
emu: wuragayin
eye: ɟaminɟamin
eye: mamaguɹ̣
eye: mamaguṛ
eye: ŋaral(ba)
face: maguɹ̣
face: mamaguṛ
fall: ḍalag
fall: dalag ŋinaɟi
fall: yar
father: -baba
father: ŋababa
fat (n.): ɹ̣aŋaɟba
fat (n.): ɹ̣aŋaɟba
fat (n.): maŋaiɟba
fear: yaguḷ
fear: yagul\ ŋaɟanu
fear: yagul\ŋaɟanu
feather: aṛaman
few: muluŋuy
few: murgu
few: wulumurgu
fight: -ɟanayaɟima
fight: ṛaŋga gaiimani
fingernail: -ɹ̣aba
finger: wiyin\ma
finger: wumaṛbur
fire: ŋambur
fire: wuŋambar
fish: awalaɲan
fish: ŋuṇu
flower: wurugugu
fly (n.): awamun
fly (n.): awamun
fly (n.): guṇḍil
fly (v.): bunɟi
fly (v.): di waṛani
fog: wunurunuru
foot: wiyin\ma
foot: yidma
forehead: ɟanamba
forehead: maguɹ̣
forehead: wumiḷindi
forest: ŋalaŋin
forest: wuyúliba
full: labalabaia
full: yur biŋuḷabalabaia
girl: maḷamaḷaba
girl: ŋimaɲagu
girl: ŋiwarangar
give: -wa
give: -wi-
good: gabaɟa
good: -rirmul
good: -ɟurumbul
grass: wiɟi
grass: wuwiɟi
green: -gulgul
hair: ma(mudur)
hair: mudurmudur
hair: ŋulumurun
hand: maba
hand: maɹ̣bur
hand: murɟi
hand: wumaṛbur
head: gululu
head: maraŋuɹ̣u
head: wadamuru
head: wirɟu
head: wugululu
hear: -gaia-
hear: -gayama
hear: -gayama
heart: bulbul
heart: ŋiɹ̣ŋiɹ̣
heart: wulbulbul
hear: wiɹ̣
hear: wiɹ̣
hear: -wini
heavy: guḷgmin
heavy: (wu)walbwayin
he/she: agi
he/she: agi
he/she: (ɹ̣)iwa
he/she: miwa
he/she: ŋadba
he/she: ŋiwa
he/she: niwa
he/she: ṇiwa
he/she: wiwa
hit: ɹ̣aŋ
hit: -ba-
hit: ṛaŋ ŋagini
hold: dil\ ŋidaŋani
hole: yilba
house: wubaḍan
hunt: ɟaŋgai ŋara
husband: -liŋali
husband: ŋabuɟin
I: ŋiŋa
I: ŋiŋa
I: ŋini
jaw: ɟawal
jaw: ŋayala
kangaroo: agirmo
kangaroo: mulbia
kill: ɹ̣aŋ
kill: gal\ ŋaɟa
knee: ŋaɹ̣aŋaɹ̣a
knee: wumiḍimal
know: -wabal
know: yalya
lake: buliɟiḍimiɲga
lake: ŋaɟal
lake: wuŋargu
laugh: wirg ŋarani
leaf: ɹ̣imbir
leaf: wularin
left: wubalɟagu
leg: arawur
leg: ndula
leg: yabara
leg: yula
lie: gula-ŋaw
lie: mulg ŋiŋa
lightning: miṇimgani
lightning: yaminɟi
lip: wuŋaːndal
live: ŋad
liver: waḍuwaḍu
liver: wu(waḍu)
live: wainma
long: gudayi
long: -rulgara
long: ɹ̣ugalara
long: ɹ̣ugalara
man: nɟalguyi
man: ṇaŋgiwar
man: nawaɹ̣iyi
man: nawaṛiyi
man: waḷya
many: maḷgayayi
many: nɟaɹ̣i
many: wulunɟari
meat: ɟalbiɟ
meat: wangubi
meat: wangubi
meat: wuwalŋi
meat: wuwangubi
moon: na(daŋa)
moon: nadaŋadaŋa
moon: waḍaŋarin
morning: miŋaiɲiɲia
morning: ŋiliŋiliwayi
morning: yara\bani
mosquito: amula
mosquito: a(wuna)
mosquito: muḷa
mother: -bibi
mother: -gara
mother: -yibi
mountain: -ḷiŋḷiŋ
mountain: maligar
mountain: maligar
mouth: ŋaṇḍal
mouth: wuŋaːndal
name: ɲiyin
name: wuɲi\ingu\agi
nape: ndagi
nape: wiyagi\
navel: mamala
near: digai
near: ḍigay
neck: biḷbar
neck: wiyagi\
new: -ɟaminɟi
night: ṇamiri
not: gu
not: wuyagu
old: -gudar
old: ṇa-ɟawulba
old: naɟawulba
old: ŋi-ɟawulba
one: -waŋgin
other: mawurgayi
other: -waiara
person: nawariyi
person: waɹ̣iyi adj
play: gaɹ̣
play: garu ŋamama
pull: ɟaɹ̣
push: ɟuḷuḷu
rain: gubiɟiɟi
rain: ŋinɟula
rain: nɟuḷa
rat: a(buṛud)
red: baruwa
red: buḍilbuḍil
red: -gilwirmain
right: wudunbur
ripe: dunburbugi
ripe: gabul
ripe: maramara
river: balba
river: gabɔlami
river: wubalba
road: maŋgaṇ
road: wiyin\ma
road: yilgiṇ
root: maligar
root: muṇḍa
rope: maiibar
rope: mamunda
rope: ŋaḍugu
rotten: maŋaḍugu
round: duɲul ami
rub: wala\mayin
rub: wur
salt: miṇiɟar
sand: guɟan
sand: wuguɟan
say: ŋaḷ
say: ŋaḷ\ŋamamani
scratch: garɟ
scratch: wiɹ̣ɟ
scratch: yai ŋabani
sea: malaban
sea: ma(luru)
seed: ŋaralba
seed: wuŋaralba
see: waɹ̣
see: waɹ̣
see: waṛ\ ŋawindimani
sharp: -mandarara
short: babŋalan
short: -rirmul
shoulder: ayawiḷi
shoulder: ŋabaḷa
sing: war
sing: war ŋagini
sister: -daga-
sister: -daga-
sister: ŋandaga
sister: ŋandala
sit: ḍaɟ
sit: -malɟuɹ̣a
sit: -nani
skin: ɲaḍin
skin: warála räiɟa
skin: wawarála
sky: wugunduru
sleep: mulg
sleep: mulg aɟani
small: -maɲagu
small: maɲagu
small: yigu
smell: ŋarg ŋaia
smell: ŋgarwa
smell: ɲuŋ-ra-
smell: yumar
smoke: ṇḍuḷar
smoke: wundular
smooth: wumuɲur
snake: awaiwai
snake: wayway
son: ŋaniɟa
spit: guɹ̣guɹ̣
spit: nɟagaɹ̣
stand: bai ŋaɟani
stand: bay
star: diliŋa
star: gamirinɟi
star: ŋigamirinɟi
stone: ḷigar
stone: maligar
stone: maḷigar
stone: manuga
stone: wubalba
straight: dunbur
straight: maṇɟurɟur
suck: ɟi ŋgaɟani
sun: ŋinguŋaru
sun: ŋinguŋaru
sun: warŋiwarŋi
sweet: bunɟi
sweet: ŋulawar
sweet: wubunɟi
sweet: wuŋulaːwar
swim: ŋɔi\ ŋaṛani
swim: ŋuy
tail: ɹ̣abara
tail: maɟigur
tail: nɟigur
take: -ga-
take: gur
take: gur\ŋidaŋani
take: -wagini-
that: -ni
that: -niɲi
that: -wa
there: -dɲaya
there: wuniɲi
they: alagi
they: (ɹ̣)iwa
they: miwa
they two: argi
they two: (ɹ̣)iwa
they two: miwa
they two: wiwa
they two: wurayi
they: wiwa
they: wudbur
they: wulayi
thigh: magaṇḍa
thigh: yarbiɟ
thin: -\(?)ɟirbirin
think: gwaḍa ra ŋagini
think: waḍara
thin: wirɟu
this: -niya
thou: ɲigi
thou: ɲiɲu
thou: ŋudbur
thou: ŋudugi
three: yiriwudŋɔinagayi
throat: biḷbar
throat: mɛṛaɲu
throw: diu ŋiɟa
throw: ḍiw
throw: ḍub
thunder: gululami
thunder: yaminɟi
tie: ḍira
today: nala
today: ṇala
tomorrow: ɟilgɲi
tomorrow: ɟilɲi
tongue: wuɟiyil
tongue: wu-nɟiyilŋ
tooth: ɹ̣aba
tooth: wuguyuru
tree: ḍabaliya
tree: wiyulba
tree: yulba
turn: guɹ̣id-ga-
turn: guɹ̣id-ra-
turn: guṛidu ŋagiɲu
turn: guṛin\ ŋiŋa
two: wudŋoi
unripe: gangima
vagina: maḷabaŋu
vagina: nɟaḷbar
vomit: ŋaɟani
vomit: wi
walk: -ɹ̣a-
walk: gi
walk: ṇad
walk: -ṛani
walk: wari yaː ŋaraŋani
walk: wuṛ\ŋabani
wallaby: aŋargulambɛ
warm: win ŋamaŋi
wash: ḷib
wash: lib ŋarani
wash: lib -ŋarani
water: ɟilbi
water: ŋaḷaɟa
water: wuŋalaɟa
water: wuŋargu
weep: ḷuḷ
weep: lul\ŋamanani
weep: ŋaral-ɟililiɟ
we (excl.): ɲidbur
we (excl.): ɲidigi
we (incl.): ŋala
we (incl.): ŋalagi
wet: waɟa
we two (excl.): ɲirayi
we two (excl.): ɲirgi
we two (incl.): ɲaɲa
we two (incl.): ɲagi
what: -ngaŋa
what: wungaŋa?
when: mala-wunga
when: wumalawungu?
where: wu-ngiŋa
where: wungiŋa?
white: -buralgmin
white: maŋunga
who: naŋani?
who: ŋani
wife: -buɟin
wife: ŋabuɟi-
wind: walulu
wind: wuwálulu
wing: wunuŋgu
woman: ŋiwoibi
woman: ŋiwuibi
woman: wuybi
wood: ḍabaliya
wood: ḍabaliya
wood: wiyulba wuṛugu
wood: wuŋambur
wood: yulba
woomera: baḷya
woomera: mabargu
woomera: maŋgal
woomera: wuɟula
yellow: gilwir
yellow: -waṛabmain
yes: yoː
you two: ŋurayi
you two: ŋurgi
